datamodel_template.md, before:

# {{Data Model Name}}

## Description

{{Data Model Description}}

## Data Model

A JSON Schema corresponding to this data model can be found {{add link to JSON Schema}}

+ `id` : Unique identifier. 

+ `type` : Entity type. It must be equal to {{EntityType}}.

+ `dateModified` : Last update timestamp of this entity.
    + Attribute type: [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime)
    + Optional

+ `dateCreated` : Entity's creation timestamp.
    + Attribute type: [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime)
    + Optional    

{{Location and address are two typical attributes that are added here for convenience}}

+ `location` : Location of {{entity type}} represented by a GeoJSON geometry. 
    + Attribute type: `geo:json`.
    + Normative References: [https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7946](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7946)
    + Mandatory if `address` is not defined. 
    
+ `address` : Civic address of {{entity type}}
    + Normative References: [https://schema.org/address](https://schema.org/address)
    + Mandatory if `location` is not present. 

{{Below there is a description of a typical attribute}}

+ `{{attributeName}}` : {{Description of the attribute}}
    + Normative References: {{Add a normative reference}}
    + Attribute type: {{Add here the attribute type}}
    + Attribute metadata:
        + `{{metadata name}}` : {{Metadata Description}}
    + {{Optional/Mandatory}}
    
## Examples of use

{{Provide a JSON example}}
    
## Use it with a real service

{{Provide a link to a real service providing data following the harmonized data format}}

## Open Issues

{{Describe here any open issue}}

Commit message:

Add owner to gsma common schema
Checking the original GSMA Device Data Model we found out that the
owner attribute is missing. We believe this is an relevant attribute in
several scenarios.
* Added owner property as array of uris to common-schema.json to match
GSMA Device Data Model
* Added owner property to GSMA Device Data Model spec

datamodel_template.md, after:

# {{Data Model Name}}

## Description

{{Data Model Description}}

## Data Model

A JSON Schema corresponding to this data model can be found {{add link to JSON Schema}}

+ `id` : Unique identifier. 

+ `type` : Entity type. It must be equal to {{EntityType}}.

+ `dateModified` : Last update timestamp of this entity.
    + Attribute type: [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime)
    + Optional

+ `dateCreated` : Entity's creation timestamp.
    + Attribute type: [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime)
    + Optional    

+ `owner` : Entity's owners: an array of entities that represents the owners of an Thing.
    + Attribute type: List of [Person]( http://schema.org/Person) or [Organization](https://schema.org/Organization).
    + Optional

{{Location and address are two typical attributes that are added here for convenience}}

+ `location` : Location of {{entity type}} represented by a GeoJSON geometry. 
    + Attribute type: `geo:json`.
    + Normative References: [https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7946](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7946)
    + Mandatory if `address` is not defined. 
    
+ `address` : Civic address of {{entity type}}
    + Normative References: [https://schema.org/address](https://schema.org/address)
    + Mandatory if `location` is not present. 

{{Below there is a description of a typical attribute}}

+ `{{attributeName}}` : {{Description of the attribute}}
    + Normative References: {{Add a normative reference}}
    + Attribute type: {{Add here the attribute type}}
    + Attribute metadata:
        + `{{metadata name}}` : {{Metadata Description}}
    + {{Optional/Mandatory}}
    
## Examples of use

{{Provide a JSON example}}
    
## Use it with a real service

{{Provide a link to a real service providing data following the harmonized data format}}

## Open Issues

{{Describe here any open issue}}
