specs/WasteManagement/WasteContainer/doc/spec.md, before:

# Waste Container

## Description

A waste container.

## Data Model

A JSON Schema corresponding to this data model can be found
[here](http://fiware.github.io/dataModels/specs/WasteManagement/WasteContainer/schema.json).

-   `id` : Unique identifier.

-   `type` : Entity type. It must be equal to `WasteContainer`.

-   `location` : Container's location represented by a GeoJSON Point.

    -   Attribute type: `geo:json`.
    -   Normative References:
        [https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7946](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7946)
    -   Mandatory if `address` is not present.

-   `address`: Civic address where the container is located.

    -   Normative References:
        [https://schema.org/address](https://schema.org/address)
    -   Mandatory if `location` is not present.

-   `fillingLevel` : Filling level of the container (percentage, expressed in
    parts per one). When the container is full it must be equal to `1.0`. When
    the container is empty it must be equal to `0.0`. If it is not possible to
    determine the current filling level it must be equal to `null`. + Attribute
    type: [Number](http://schema.org/Number) + Attribute metadata: +
    `timestamp`: Timestamp when the last update of the attribute happened. +
    Type: [DateTime](http://schema.org/DateTime) + `TimeInstant` :
    [Timestamp](https://github.com/telefonicaid/iotagent-node-lib#TimeInstant)
    saved by FIWARE's IoT Agents. Note: This attribute has not been harmonized
    to keep backwards compatibility with current FIWARE reference
    implementations. + Type: [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime). There can
    be production environmments where the attribute type is equal to the
    `ISO8601` string. If so, it must be considered as a synonym of `DateTime`.

    -   Allowed values: Interval [0,1]. + Optional

-   `fullnessThreshold` : The level at which the container will generate a
    warning (percentage, expressed in parts per one). If the filling level
    passes this threshold, action should be taken to clean the container. +
    Attribute type: [Number](http://schema.org/Number) + Attribute metadata: +
    `timestamp`: Timestamp when the last update of the attribute happened. +
    Type: [DateTime](http://schema.org/DateTime) + `TimeInstant` :
    [Timestamp](https://github.com/telefonicaid/iotagent-node-lib#TimeInstant)
    saved by FIWARE's IoT Agents. Note: This attribute has not been harmonized
    to keep backwards compatibility with current FIWARE reference
    implementations. + Type: [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime). There can
    be production environmments where the attribute type is equal to the
    `ISO8601` string. If so, it must be considered as a synonym of `DateTime`.

    -   Allowed values: Interval [0,1]. + Optional

-   `cargoWeight` : Weight of the container load. + Attribute type:
    [Number](http://schema.org/Number) + Attribute metadata: + `timestamp`:
    Timestamp when the last update of the attribute happened. + Type:
    [DateTime](http://schema.org/DateTime) + `TimeInstant` :
    [Timestamp](https://github.com/telefonicaid/iotagent-node-lib#TimeInstant)
    saved by FIWARE's IoT Agents. Note: This attribute has not been harmonized
    to keep backwards compatibility with current FIWARE reference
    implementations. + Type: [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime). There can
    be production environmments where the attribute type is equal to the
    `ISO8601` string. If so, it must be considered as a synonym of `DateTime`.

    -   Default Unit: Kilograms. + See also:
        [https://schema.org/weight](https://schema.org/weight) + Optional

-   `temperature` : Temperature inside the container. + Attribute type:
    [Number](http://schema.org/Number) + Attribute metadata: + `timestamp`:
    Timestamp when the last update of the attribute happened. + Type:
    [DateTime](http://schema.org/DateTime) + `TimeInstant` :
    [Timestamp](https://github.com/telefonicaid/iotagent-node-lib#TimeInstant)
    saved by FIWARE's IoT Agents. Note: This attribute has not been harmonized
    to keep backwards compatibility with current FIWARE reference
    implementations. + Type: [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime). There can
    be production environmments where the attribute type is equal to the
    `ISO8601` string. If so, it must be considered as a synonym of `DateTime`.

    -   Default unit: Celsius Degrees. + Optional

-   `methaneConcentration` : Methane (CH4) concentration inside the container. +
    Attribute type: [Number](http://schema.org/Number) + Attribute metadata: +
    `timestamp`: Timestamp when the last update of the attribute happened. +
    Type: [DateTime](http://schema.org/DateTime) + `TimeInstant` :
    [Timestamp](https://github.com/telefonicaid/iotagent-node-lib#TimeInstant)
    saved by FIWARE's IoT Agents. Note: This attribute has not been harmonized
    to keep backwards compatibility with current FIWARE reference
    implementations. + Type: [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime). There can
    be production environmments where the attribute type is equal to the
    `ISO8601` string. If so, it must be considered as a synonym of `DateTime`.

    -   Default unit: Micrograms per cubic meter. + Optional

-   `storedWasteOrigin` : Origin of the waste stored.

    -   Attribute type: [Text](http://schema.org/Text)
    -   Allowed values: one Of (`household`, `municipal`, `industrial`,
        `construction`, `hostelry`, `agriculture`, `other`)
        -   Or any other value which does not fit within the former.
    -   Optional

-   `storedWasteKind` : Kind/s of waste stored by the container.

    -   Attribute type: List of [Text](http://schema.org/Text)
    -   Allowed values: (`organic`, `inorganic`, `glass`, `oil`, `plastic`,
        `metal`, `paper`, `batteries`, `electronics`, `hazardous`, `other`)
        -   Or any other value which does not fit within the former.
    -   Optional

-   `storedWasteCode` : As per the regulation, waste codes which precisely
    identifies waste origin and kind.

    -   Attribute type: List of [Text](http://schema.org/Text)
    -   Allowed values: Depend on the target regulation. For Europe, check
        [Europe's List of Waste](http://ec.europa.eu/environment/waste/framework/list.htm).
    -   Optional

-   `refWasteContainerModel` : Container's model.

    -   Attribute type: Reference to a
        [WasteContainerModel](../../WasteContainerModel/doc/spec.md) entity.
    -   Optional

-   `serialNumber` : Serial number of the container.

    -   Normative References:
        [https://schema.org/serialNumber](https://schema.org/serialNumber)
    -   Optional

-   `regulation` : Regulation under which the container is operating.

    -   Attribute type: List of [Text](http://schema.org/Text)
    -   Optional

-   `responsible` : Responsible for the container, i.e. entity in charge of
    actuating (emptying, collecting etc.).

    -   Attribute type: [Text](http://schema.org/Text)
    -   Optional

-   `owner` : Container's owner.

    -   Attribute type: [Text](http://schema.org/Text)
    -   Optional

-   `dateServiceStarted` : Date at which the container started giving service.

    -   Attribute Type: [Date](http://schema.org/Date)
    -   Optional

-   `dateLastEmptying` : Timestamp which represents when the container was
    emptied last time.

    -   Attribute Type: [DateTime](http://schema.org/DateTime)
    -   Optional

-   `nextActuationDeadline` : Deadline for next actuation to be performed
    (emptying, picking up, etc.).

    -   Attribute Type: [DateTime](http://schema.org/DateTime)
    -   Optional

-   `actuationHours` : Hours suitable for performing actuations over the
    container.

    -   Attribute Type: [Text](http://schema.org/Text)
    -   Normative References: Value must be compliant with
        [https://schema.org/openingHours](https://schema.org/openingHours)

-   `dateLastCleaning` : When the container was cleaned last time.

    -   Attribute Type: [DateTime](http://schema.org/Date)
    -   Optional

-   `nextCleaningDeadline` : Deadline for next cleaning.

    -   Attribute Type: [DateTime](http://schema.org/DateTime)
    -   Optional

-   `refWasteContainerIsle` : Isle where the container is placed.

    -   Attribute Type: Reference to a
        [WasteContainerIsle](../../WasteContainerIsle/doc/spec.md) entity.
    -   Optional

-   `isleId` : Identifier (or name) of the isle where the container is placed.
    This attribute should be used when entities of type `WasteContainerIsle` are
    not being modelled specifically. Otherwise, `refWasteContainerIsle` should
    be used. + Attribute Type: [Text](http://schema.org/Text) + Optional

-   `category` : Container's category.

    -   Attribute type: List of [Text](https://schema.org/Text)
    -   Allowed Values:
        -   All values allowed for the `category` property of
            [WasteContainerModel](../../WasteContainerModel/doc/spec.md).
        -   `fixed`. Container is fixed to a wall, support or handle.
        -   `underground`. Container is placed underground.
        -   `ground`. Container is placed at ground level.
        -   `portable`. Container can be moved around a certain extent.
        -   Any other value which captures an aspect not covered by those
            referred above.

-   `status` : Container's status from the point of view of safety. + Attribute
    type: [Text](https://schema.org/Text) + Allowed Values: + `ok`. Container is
    where it must be and stands properly. + `lidOpen`. Container's lid has been
    opened and not closed after a certain amount of time. + `dropped`. Container
    has been dropped for some reason. + `moved`. Container has been moved from
    its regular position and has not come back. + `vandalized`. Container has
    been damaged or destroyed due to vandalism. + `burning`. Container is
    burning and an immediate action has to be taken. + Attribute metadata: +
    `timestamp`: Timestamp when the last update of the attribute happened. +
    Type: [DateTime](http://schema.org/DateTime) + `TimeInstant` :
    [Timestamp](https://github.com/telefonicaid/iotagent-node-lib#TimeInstant)
    saved by FIWARE's IoT Agents. Note: This attribute has not been harmonized
    to keep backwards compatibility with current FIWARE reference
    implementations. + Type: [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime). There can
    be production environmments where the attribute type is equal to the
    `ISO8601` string. If so, it must be considered as a synonym of `DateTime`.

    -   Optional

-   `color` : Container's color

    -   Attribute type: [Text](https://schema.org/Text)
    -   Allowed Values:
        -   A color keyword as specified by
            [W3C Color Keywords](https://www.w3.org/TR/SVG/types.html#ColorKeywords)
        -   A color value as specified by
            [W3C Color Data Type](https://www.w3.org/TR/SVG/types.html#BasicDataTypes)
    -   See also: [https://schema.org/color](https://schema.org/color)
    -   Optional

-   `image` : A URL containing a photo of the container.

    -   Normative References:
        [https://schema.org/image](https://schema.org/image)
    -   Optional

-   `description` : Description about the container.

    -   Normative References:
        [https://schema.org/description](https://schema.org/description)
    -   Optional

-   `annotations` : A field reserved for annotations (incidences, remarks,
    etc.).

    -   Attribute type: List of [Text](https://schema.org/Text)
    -   Optional

-   `areaServed` : Higher level area to which the container belongs to. It can
    be used to group containers per responsible, district, neighbourhood, etc. +
    Normative References:
    [https://pending.schema.org/areaServed](https://pending.schema.org/areaServed) +
    Optional

-   `dateModified` : Last update timestamp of this entity

    -   Attribute type: [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime)
    -   Read-Only. Automatically generated.

-   `TimeInstant` :
    [Timestamp](https://github.com/telefonicaid/iotagent-node-lib#TimeInstant)
    saved by FIWARE's IoT Agent as per dynamic IoT data arrival. Note: This
    attribute has not been harmonized to keep backwards compatibility with
    current FIWARE reference implementations. + Attribute type:
    [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime). There can be production
    environmments where the attribute type is equal to the `ISO8601` string. If
    so, it must be considered as a synonym of `DateTime`.

    -   Optional

-   `refDevice` : Reference to the device(s) used to monitor this container.
    -   Attribute type: List of Reference to entity(ies) of type
        [Device](../../../Device/Device/doc/spec.md)
    -   Optional

**Note**: JSON Schemas only capture the NGSI simplified representation, this
means that to test the JSON schema examples with a
[FIWARE NGSI version 2](http://fiware.github.io/specifications/ngsiv2/stable)
API implementation, you need to use the `keyValues` mode (`options=keyValues`).

## Examples of use

    {
       "id": "wastecontainer:Fleming:12a",
       "type": "WasteContainer",
       "refWasteContainerModel": "wastecontainermodel:c1",
       "refWasteContainerIsle":  "wastecontainerisle:Fleming:12",
       "serialNumber": "ab56kjl",
       "location": {
         "type": "Point",
         "coordinates": [  -3.164485591715449, 40.62785133667262 ]
       },
       "fillingLevel" : 0.4,
       "dateLastEmptying": "2016-06-21T15:05:59.408Z",
       "nextActuationDeadline": "2016-06-28T15:05:59.408Z",
       "status": "ok",
       "category": ["underground"],
       "refDevice": ["device-Fleming:12a:1"]
    }

## Test it with real services

## Open issues

Commit message:

added source and dataProvider attribute to the WasteManagement Folder

specs/WasteManagement/WasteContainer/doc/spec.md, after:

# Waste Container

## Description

A waste container.

## Data Model

A JSON Schema corresponding to this data model can be found
[here](http://fiware.github.io/dataModels/specs/WasteManagement/WasteContainer/schema.json).

-   `id` : Unique identifier.

-   `type` : Entity type. It must be equal to `WasteContainer`.

- `source` : A sequence of characters giving the source of the entity data.
  - Attribute type: Text or URL
  - Optional

- `dataProvider` : Specifies the URL to information about the provider of this information
  - Attribute type: URL
  - Optional

-   `location` : Container's location represented by a GeoJSON Point.

    -   Attribute type: `geo:json`.
    -   Normative References:
        [https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7946](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7946)
    -   Mandatory if `address` is not present.

-   `address`: Civic address where the container is located.

    -   Normative References:
        [https://schema.org/address](https://schema.org/address)
    -   Mandatory if `location` is not present.

-   `fillingLevel` : Filling level of the container (percentage, expressed in
    parts per one). When the container is full it must be equal to `1.0`. When
    the container is empty it must be equal to `0.0`. If it is not possible to
    determine the current filling level it must be equal to `null`. + Attribute
    type: [Number](http://schema.org/Number) + Attribute metadata: +
    `timestamp`: Timestamp when the last update of the attribute happened. +
    Type: [DateTime](http://schema.org/DateTime) + `TimeInstant` :
    [Timestamp](https://github.com/telefonicaid/iotagent-node-lib#TimeInstant)
    saved by FIWARE's IoT Agents. Note: This attribute has not been harmonized
    to keep backwards compatibility with current FIWARE reference
    implementations. + Type: [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime). There can
    be production environmments where the attribute type is equal to the
    `ISO8601` string. If so, it must be considered as a synonym of `DateTime`.

    -   Allowed values: Interval [0,1]. + Optional

-   `fullnessThreshold` : The level at which the container will generate a
    warning (percentage, expressed in parts per one). If the filling level
    passes this threshold, action should be taken to clean the container. +
    Attribute type: [Number](http://schema.org/Number) + Attribute metadata: +
    `timestamp`: Timestamp when the last update of the attribute happened. +
    Type: [DateTime](http://schema.org/DateTime) + `TimeInstant` :
    [Timestamp](https://github.com/telefonicaid/iotagent-node-lib#TimeInstant)
    saved by FIWARE's IoT Agents. Note: This attribute has not been harmonized
    to keep backwards compatibility with current FIWARE reference
    implementations. + Type: [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime). There can
    be production environmments where the attribute type is equal to the
    `ISO8601` string. If so, it must be considered as a synonym of `DateTime`.

    -   Allowed values: Interval [0,1]. + Optional

-   `cargoWeight` : Weight of the container load. + Attribute type:
    [Number](http://schema.org/Number) + Attribute metadata: + `timestamp`:
    Timestamp when the last update of the attribute happened. + Type:
    [DateTime](http://schema.org/DateTime) + `TimeInstant` :
    [Timestamp](https://github.com/telefonicaid/iotagent-node-lib#TimeInstant)
    saved by FIWARE's IoT Agents. Note: This attribute has not been harmonized
    to keep backwards compatibility with current FIWARE reference
    implementations. + Type: [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime). There can
    be production environmments where the attribute type is equal to the
    `ISO8601` string. If so, it must be considered as a synonym of `DateTime`.

    -   Default Unit: Kilograms. + See also:
        [https://schema.org/weight](https://schema.org/weight) + Optional

-   `temperature` : Temperature inside the container. + Attribute type:
    [Number](http://schema.org/Number) + Attribute metadata: + `timestamp`:
    Timestamp when the last update of the attribute happened. + Type:
    [DateTime](http://schema.org/DateTime) + `TimeInstant` :
    [Timestamp](https://github.com/telefonicaid/iotagent-node-lib#TimeInstant)
    saved by FIWARE's IoT Agents. Note: This attribute has not been harmonized
    to keep backwards compatibility with current FIWARE reference
    implementations. + Type: [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime). There can
    be production environmments where the attribute type is equal to the
    `ISO8601` string. If so, it must be considered as a synonym of `DateTime`.

    -   Default unit: Celsius Degrees. + Optional

-   `methaneConcentration` : Methane (CH4) concentration inside the container. +
    Attribute type: [Number](http://schema.org/Number) + Attribute metadata: +
    `timestamp`: Timestamp when the last update of the attribute happened. +
    Type: [DateTime](http://schema.org/DateTime) + `TimeInstant` :
    [Timestamp](https://github.com/telefonicaid/iotagent-node-lib#TimeInstant)
    saved by FIWARE's IoT Agents. Note: This attribute has not been harmonized
    to keep backwards compatibility with current FIWARE reference
    implementations. + Type: [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime). There can
    be production environmments where the attribute type is equal to the
    `ISO8601` string. If so, it must be considered as a synonym of `DateTime`.

    -   Default unit: Micrograms per cubic meter. + Optional

-   `storedWasteOrigin` : Origin of the waste stored.

    -   Attribute type: [Text](http://schema.org/Text)
    -   Allowed values: one Of (`household`, `municipal`, `industrial`,
        `construction`, `hostelry`, `agriculture`, `other`)
        -   Or any other value which does not fit within the former.
    -   Optional

-   `storedWasteKind` : Kind/s of waste stored by the container.

    -   Attribute type: List of [Text](http://schema.org/Text)
    -   Allowed values: (`organic`, `inorganic`, `glass`, `oil`, `plastic`,
        `metal`, `paper`, `batteries`, `electronics`, `hazardous`, `other`)
        -   Or any other value which does not fit within the former.
    -   Optional

-   `storedWasteCode` : As per the regulation, waste codes which precisely
    identifies waste origin and kind.

    -   Attribute type: List of [Text](http://schema.org/Text)
    -   Allowed values: Depend on the target regulation. For Europe, check
        [Europe's List of Waste](http://ec.europa.eu/environment/waste/framework/list.htm).
    -   Optional

-   `refWasteContainerModel` : Container's model.

    -   Attribute type: Reference to a
        [WasteContainerModel](../../WasteContainerModel/doc/spec.md) entity.
    -   Optional

-   `serialNumber` : Serial number of the container.

    -   Normative References:
        [https://schema.org/serialNumber](https://schema.org/serialNumber)
    -   Optional

-   `regulation` : Regulation under which the container is operating.

    -   Attribute type: List of [Text](http://schema.org/Text)
    -   Optional

-   `responsible` : Responsible for the container, i.e. entity in charge of
    actuating (emptying, collecting etc.).

    -   Attribute type: [Text](http://schema.org/Text)
    -   Optional

-   `owner` : Container's owner.

    -   Attribute type: [Text](http://schema.org/Text)
    -   Optional

-   `dateServiceStarted` : Date at which the container started giving service.

    -   Attribute Type: [Date](http://schema.org/Date)
    -   Optional

-   `dateLastEmptying` : Timestamp which represents when the container was
    emptied last time.

    -   Attribute Type: [DateTime](http://schema.org/DateTime)
    -   Optional

-   `nextActuationDeadline` : Deadline for next actuation to be performed
    (emptying, picking up, etc.).

    -   Attribute Type: [DateTime](http://schema.org/DateTime)
    -   Optional

-   `actuationHours` : Hours suitable for performing actuations over the
    container.

    -   Attribute Type: [Text](http://schema.org/Text)
    -   Normative References: Value must be compliant with
        [https://schema.org/openingHours](https://schema.org/openingHours)

-   `dateLastCleaning` : When the container was cleaned last time.

    -   Attribute Type: [DateTime](http://schema.org/Date)
    -   Optional

-   `nextCleaningDeadline` : Deadline for next cleaning.

    -   Attribute Type: [DateTime](http://schema.org/DateTime)
    -   Optional

-   `refWasteContainerIsle` : Isle where the container is placed.

    -   Attribute Type: Reference to a
        [WasteContainerIsle](../../WasteContainerIsle/doc/spec.md) entity.
    -   Optional

-   `isleId` : Identifier (or name) of the isle where the container is placed.
    This attribute should be used when entities of type `WasteContainerIsle` are
    not being modelled specifically. Otherwise, `refWasteContainerIsle` should
    be used. + Attribute Type: [Text](http://schema.org/Text) + Optional

-   `category` : Container's category.

    -   Attribute type: List of [Text](https://schema.org/Text)
    -   Allowed Values:
        -   All values allowed for the `category` property of
            [WasteContainerModel](../../WasteContainerModel/doc/spec.md).
        -   `fixed`. Container is fixed to a wall, support or handle.
        -   `underground`. Container is placed underground.
        -   `ground`. Container is placed at ground level.
        -   `portable`. Container can be moved around a certain extent.
        -   Any other value which captures an aspect not covered by those
            referred above.

-   `status` : Container's status from the point of view of safety. + Attribute
    type: [Text](https://schema.org/Text) + Allowed Values: + `ok`. Container is
    where it must be and stands properly. + `lidOpen`. Container's lid has been
    opened and not closed after a certain amount of time. + `dropped`. Container
    has been dropped for some reason. + `moved`. Container has been moved from
    its regular position and has not come back. + `vandalized`. Container has
    been damaged or destroyed due to vandalism. + `burning`. Container is
    burning and an immediate action has to be taken. + Attribute metadata: +
    `timestamp`: Timestamp when the last update of the attribute happened. +
    Type: [DateTime](http://schema.org/DateTime) + `TimeInstant` :
    [Timestamp](https://github.com/telefonicaid/iotagent-node-lib#TimeInstant)
    saved by FIWARE's IoT Agents. Note: This attribute has not been harmonized
    to keep backwards compatibility with current FIWARE reference
    implementations. + Type: [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime). There can
    be production environmments where the attribute type is equal to the
    `ISO8601` string. If so, it must be considered as a synonym of `DateTime`.

    -   Optional

-   `color` : Container's color

    -   Attribute type: [Text](https://schema.org/Text)
    -   Allowed Values:
        -   A color keyword as specified by
            [W3C Color Keywords](https://www.w3.org/TR/SVG/types.html#ColorKeywords)
        -   A color value as specified by
            [W3C Color Data Type](https://www.w3.org/TR/SVG/types.html#BasicDataTypes)
    -   See also: [https://schema.org/color](https://schema.org/color)
    -   Optional

-   `image` : A URL containing a photo of the container.

    -   Normative References:
        [https://schema.org/image](https://schema.org/image)
    -   Optional

-   `description` : Description about the container.

    -   Normative References:
        [https://schema.org/description](https://schema.org/description)
    -   Optional

-   `annotations` : A field reserved for annotations (incidences, remarks,
    etc.).

    -   Attribute type: List of [Text](https://schema.org/Text)
    -   Optional

-   `areaServed` : Higher level area to which the container belongs to. It can
    be used to group containers per responsible, district, neighbourhood, etc. +
    Normative References:
    [https://pending.schema.org/areaServed](https://pending.schema.org/areaServed) +
    Optional

-   `dateModified` : Last update timestamp of this entity

    -   Attribute type: [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime)
    -   Read-Only. Automatically generated.

-   `TimeInstant` :
    [Timestamp](https://github.com/telefonicaid/iotagent-node-lib#TimeInstant)
    saved by FIWARE's IoT Agent as per dynamic IoT data arrival. Note: This
    attribute has not been harmonized to keep backwards compatibility with
    current FIWARE reference implementations. + Attribute type:
    [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime). There can be production
    environmments where the attribute type is equal to the `ISO8601` string. If
    so, it must be considered as a synonym of `DateTime`.

    -   Optional

-   `refDevice` : Reference to the device(s) used to monitor this container.
    -   Attribute type: List of Reference to entity(ies) of type
        [Device](../../../Device/Device/doc/spec.md)
    -   Optional

**Note**: JSON Schemas only capture the NGSI simplified representation, this
means that to test the JSON schema examples with a
[FIWARE NGSI version 2](http://fiware.github.io/specifications/ngsiv2/stable)
API implementation, you need to use the `keyValues` mode (`options=keyValues`).

## Examples of use

    {
       "id": "wastecontainer:Fleming:12a",
       "type": "WasteContainer",
       "refWasteContainerModel": "wastecontainermodel:c1",
       "refWasteContainerIsle":  "wastecontainerisle:Fleming:12",
       "serialNumber": "ab56kjl",
       "location": {
         "type": "Point",
         "coordinates": [  -3.164485591715449, 40.62785133667262 ]
       },
       "fillingLevel" : 0.4,
       "dateLastEmptying": "2016-06-21T15:05:59.408Z",
       "nextActuationDeadline": "2016-06-28T15:05:59.408Z",
       "status": "ok",
       "category": ["underground"],
       "refDevice": ["device-Fleming:12a:1"]
    }

## Test it with real services

## Open issues
