specs/User/UserContext/doc/spec.md, before:

# UserContext

## Description

This data model describe the Context of a User. No personal data is encoded in
the model. The actual User data are stored in a different end point, as
identified by the `refUser` property.

## Data Model

A JSON Schema corresponding to this data model can be found
[here](../schema.json).

-   `id` : Unique identifier.

-   `type` : Entity type. It must be equal to `UserContext`.

-   `dateModified` : Last update timestamp of this entity.

    -   Attribute type: [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime)
    -   Read-Only. Automatically generated.

-   `dateCreated` : Entity's creation timestamp.

    -   Attribute type: [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime)
    -   Read-Only. Automatically generated.

-   `refUser` : reference to the (anonymised) User to which this UserContext is
    associated.

    -   Attribute type: [https://schema.org/URL](https://schema.org/URL)
    -   Normative References:
        [https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3986](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3986)
    -   Mandatory

-   `location` : Current location of the User represented by a GeoJSON geometry.

    -   Attribute type: `geo:json`.
    -   Normative References:
        [https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7946](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7946)
    -   Mandatory if `address` is not defined.

-   `address` : Current civic address of the User

    -   Normative References:
        [https://schema.org/address](https://schema.org/address)
    -   Mandatory if `location` is not present.

-   `refUserDevice` : An object representing the current device used by the
    User. See [Device](../../Device/Device/doc/spec.md) definition.

    -   Attribute type: A references to a
        [Device](../../Device/Device/doc/spec.md) entity.
    -   Optional

-   `refActivity` : An object representing the current activity performed by the
    User. See [UserActivity](../UserActivity/doc/spec.md) definition.
    -   Attribute type: A references to a
        [UserActivity](../UserActivity/doc/spec.md) entity.
    -   Optional

**Note**: JSON Schemas only capture the NGSI simplified representation, this
means that to test the JSON schema examples with a
[FIWARE NGSI version 2](http://fiware.github.io/specifications/ngsiv2/stable)
API implementation, you need to use the `keyValues` mode (`options=keyValues`).

## Examples of use

```
{
  "id": "UserContext1",
  "type": "UserContext",
  "location": {
    "type": "Point",
    "coordinates": [
      -4.754444444,
      41.640833333
    ]
  },
  "refActivity": "UserActivity1",
  "refUserDevice": "Device1",
  "refUser": "User1"
}
```

## Use it with a real service

T.B.D.

## Open Issues

-   [ ] Evaluate additional properties

Commit message:

added source and dataProvider attribute to the USER Folder

specs/User/UserContext/doc/spec.md, after:

# UserContext

## Description

This data model describe the Context of a User. No personal data is encoded in
the model. The actual User data are stored in a different end point, as
identified by the `refUser` property.

## Data Model

A JSON Schema corresponding to this data model can be found
[here](../schema.json).

-   `id` : Unique identifier.

-   `type` : Entity type. It must be equal to `UserContext`.

- `source` : A sequence of characters giving the source of the entity data.
  - Attribute type: Text or URL
  - Optional

- `dataProvider` : Specifies the URL to information about the provider of this information
  - Attribute type: URL
  - Optional

-   `dateModified` : Last update timestamp of this entity.

    -   Attribute type: [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime)
    -   Read-Only. Automatically generated.

-   `dateCreated` : Entity's creation timestamp.

    -   Attribute type: [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime)
    -   Read-Only. Automatically generated.

-   `refUser` : reference to the (anonymised) User to which this UserContext is
    associated.

    -   Attribute type: [https://schema.org/URL](https://schema.org/URL)
    -   Normative References:
        [https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3986](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3986)
    -   Mandatory

-   `location` : Current location of the User represented by a GeoJSON geometry.

    -   Attribute type: `geo:json`.
    -   Normative References:
        [https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7946](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7946)
    -   Mandatory if `address` is not defined.

-   `address` : Current civic address of the User

    -   Normative References:
        [https://schema.org/address](https://schema.org/address)
    -   Mandatory if `location` is not present.

-   `refUserDevice` : An object representing the current device used by the
    User. See [Device](../../Device/Device/doc/spec.md) definition.

    -   Attribute type: A references to a
        [Device](../../Device/Device/doc/spec.md) entity.
    -   Optional

-   `refActivity` : An object representing the current activity performed by the
    User. See [UserActivity](../UserActivity/doc/spec.md) definition.
    -   Attribute type: A references to a
        [UserActivity](../UserActivity/doc/spec.md) entity.
    -   Optional

**Note**: JSON Schemas only capture the NGSI simplified representation, this
means that to test the JSON schema examples with a
[FIWARE NGSI version 2](http://fiware.github.io/specifications/ngsiv2/stable)
API implementation, you need to use the `keyValues` mode (`options=keyValues`).

## Examples of use

```
{
  "id": "UserContext1",
  "type": "UserContext",
  "location": {
    "type": "Point",
    "coordinates": [
      -4.754444444,
      41.640833333
    ]
  },
  "refActivity": "UserActivity1",
  "refUserDevice": "Device1",
  "refUser": "User1"
}
```

## Use it with a real service

T.B.D.

## Open Issues

-   [ ] Evaluate additional properties
