KeyPerformanceIndicator/doc/spec.md, before:

# Key Performance Indicator

According to [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Performance_indicator) a Key Performance Indicator (KPI)
is a type of performance measurement. KPIs evaluate the success of an organization or of a particular activity in which it engages.

The present data model defines a type of NGSI entity which captures the value and associated details of a key performance indicator. 
The data model is flexible enough to accomodate different usage scenarios: An entity  per KPI calculation
or a unique entity per KPI which value evolves along time. Please note that in the latter case a historical module, such as the STH,
would have to take care of the KPI evolution. 

## Data Model

+ `id` : Entity's unique identifier. 

+ `type` : It must be `KeyPerformanceIndicator`.

+ `name` : Indicator's name which should be meaningful in the context of a project or organization.
Example `KPI-2016-2018-Incidences-Street`.
    + Normative References: [https://schema.org/name](https://schema.org/name)
    + Mandatory
    
+ `alternateName` : An alias for the KPI.
    + Normative References: [https://schema.org/alternateName](https://schema.org/alternateName)
    + Optional

+ `organization` : Subject organization evaluated by the KPI.
    + Attribute Type: [Organization](https://schema.org/Organization)
    + Mandatory
    
+ `process` :  Subject process evaluated by the KPI.
    + Attribute Type: [Text](http://schema.org/Text)
    + Either `process` or `product` must be defined. 

+ `product` :  Subject *product or service* evaluated by the KPI.
    + Attribute Type: [Product](https://schema.org/Product)
    + Either `process` or `product` must be defined.       
    
+ `provider` :  Provider of the product or service, if any, that this KPI evaluates.
    + Normative references: [https://schema.org/provider](https://schema.org/provider) 
    + Optional   
      
+ `businessTarget` : For informative purposes, the business target to which this KPI is related to.
    + Attribute Type: [Text](http://schema.org/Text)
    + Optional

+ `description` : Indicator's description.
    + Normative References: [https://schema.org/description](https://schema.org/description)
    + Optional 

+ `calculationFrequency` : How often the KPI is calculated.
    + Attribute Type: [Text](http://schema.org/Text)
    + Allowed values: one Of (`hourly`, `daily`, `weekly`, `monthly`, `yearly`, `quarterly`, `bimonthly`, `biweekly`)
        + Or any other value meaningful for the application and not covered by the above list. 
    + Mandatory

+ `category` : Indicator's category.
    + Attribute Type: List of  [Text](http://schema.org/Text)
    + Allowed values: (`quantitative`, `qualitative`, `leading`, `lagging`, `input`,
    `process`, `output`, `practical`, `directional`, `actionable`, `financial`).
    Check [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Performance_indicator#Categorization_of_indicators)
    for a description of each category listed above.
        + Any other value meaningful to the application and not covered by the above list. 
    + Mandatory
    
+ `calculatedBy` : The organization in charge of calculating the KPI.
    + Attribute Type: [Organization](https://schema.org/Organization)
    + Optional

+ `calculationMethod` : The calculation method used.
    + Attribute type: [Text](http://schema.org/Text)
    + Allowed values: oneOf ( `manual`, `automatic`, `semiautomatic`)
        +  Any other value meaningful to the application and not covered by the above list. 
    + Optional
    
+ `calculationFormula` : For informative purposes, the formula used for calculating the indicator.
    + Attribute type: [Text](http://schema.org/Text)
    + Optional

+ `aggregatedData` : Entity(ies) and attribute(s) aggregated by the KPI.
    + Attribute type: List of [StructuredValue](https://schema.org/StructuredValue).
        + Subproperties:
            + `entityType` : Entity type which data is aggregated.
                + Type: [Text](http://schema.org/Text)
            + `attrs` : Attributes which value is aggregated.
                + Type: List of [Text](http://schema.org/Text)
    + Optional

+ `calculationPeriod` : KPI's period of time.
    + Attribute type: [StructuredValue](https://schema.org/StructuredValue)
    + Subproperties:
          + `from` : Period start
              + Type: [DateTime](http://schema.org/DateTime)
          + `to` : Period end
              + Type: [DateTime](http://schema.org/DateTime)

+ `currentStanding` : The KPI's current standing as per its `kpiValue`.
    + Attribute type: [Text](http://schema.org/Text)
    + Attribute metadata:
        + `timestamp`: Timestamp when the last update of the attribute happened.
            + Type: [DateTime](http://schema.org/DateTime)
    + Allowed values: one Of (`very good`, `good`, `fair`, `bad`, `very bad`)
    + Optional

+ `kpiValue` :
    + Attribute type: It can be of any type. 
    + Attribute metadata:
        + `timestamp`: Timestamp when the last update of the attribute happened.
            + Type: [DateTime](http://schema.org/DateTime)
    + Mandatory
    
+ `dateCreated` : The date on which the organization created this KPI. This date might be different than the entity creation date.
    + Attribute type: [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime)
    + Optional

+ `dateNextCalculation` : Date on which a new calculation of the KPI should be available.
    + Attribute type: [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime)
    + Optional

+ `dateExpires` : The date on which the KPI will be no longer necessary or meaningful.
    + Attribute type: [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime)
    + Optional
      
+ `dateModified` : Last update date of the KPI data. This can be different than the last update date of the KPI's value.
    + Attribute type: [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime)
    + Optional
    
+ `location` :  Location of the area to which the KPI refers to. 
    + Attribute type: GeoJSON geometry. 
    + Optional 

+ `address` :  Civic address of the area to which the KPI refers to. 
    + Attribute type: [https://schema.org/PostalAddress](https://schema.org/PostalAddress)
    + Optional
    
+ `area` : For organizational purposes, it allows to add extra textual geographical information such as district, burough, or any other
hint which can help to identify the KPI coverage.
    + Attribute type: [Text](http://schema.org/Text)
    + Optional

**Note**: JSON Schemas only capture the NGSI simplified representation, this means that to test the JSON schema examples with
a [FIWARE NGSI version 2](http://fiware.github.io/specifications/ngsiv2/stable) API implementation, you need to use the `keyValues`
mode (`options=keyValues`).

## Examples of Use

    {
      "id": "kpi-2016-Ciudad-containers-faults",
      "type": "KeyPerformanceIndicator",
      "name": "Incidencias-Contenedores-Mensual",
      "description": "Number of incidences raised on containers per month",
      "category": ["quantitative"],
      "organization": {
         "name": "Ayuntamiento de Ciudad"
      },
      "provider": {
         "name": "Cleaning Service Provider S.A."
      },
      "kpiValue": 20,
      "currentStanding": "good",
      "calculationPeriod": {
        "from": "2016-06-01",
        "to":   "2016-06-30",
      },
      "calculationMethod": "automatic",
      "calculationFrequency": "monthly",
      "dateModified": "2016-06-29T15:59:09.224Z",
      "dateNextCalculation": "2016-07-31",
      "address": {
        "addressLocality": "Ciudad",
        "addressCountry": "ESP"
      }
    }

## Test it with a real service

## Open issues

+ Taxonomy of services / products / processes for smart cities
+ Taxonomy of success values

Commit message:

ADD read-only automatically generated to dateCreated and dateModified attributes/metadata

KeyPerformanceIndicator/doc/spec.md, after:

# Key Performance Indicator

According to [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Performance_indicator) a Key Performance Indicator (KPI)
is a type of performance measurement. KPIs evaluate the success of an organization or of a particular activity in which it engages.

The present data model defines a type of NGSI entity which captures the value and associated details of a key performance indicator. 
The data model is flexible enough to accomodate different usage scenarios: An entity  per KPI calculation
or a unique entity per KPI which value evolves along time. Please note that in the latter case a historical module, such as the STH,
would have to take care of the KPI evolution. 

## Data Model

+ `id` : Entity's unique identifier. 

+ `type` : It must be `KeyPerformanceIndicator`.

+ `name` : Indicator's name which should be meaningful in the context of a project or organization.
Example `KPI-2016-2018-Incidences-Street`.
    + Normative References: [https://schema.org/name](https://schema.org/name)
    + Mandatory
    
+ `alternateName` : An alias for the KPI.
    + Normative References: [https://schema.org/alternateName](https://schema.org/alternateName)
    + Optional

+ `organization` : Subject organization evaluated by the KPI.
    + Attribute Type: [Organization](https://schema.org/Organization)
    + Mandatory
    
+ `process` :  Subject process evaluated by the KPI.
    + Attribute Type: [Text](http://schema.org/Text)
    + Either `process` or `product` must be defined. 

+ `product` :  Subject *product or service* evaluated by the KPI.
    + Attribute Type: [Product](https://schema.org/Product)
    + Either `process` or `product` must be defined.       
    
+ `provider` :  Provider of the product or service, if any, that this KPI evaluates.
    + Normative references: [https://schema.org/provider](https://schema.org/provider) 
    + Optional   
      
+ `businessTarget` : For informative purposes, the business target to which this KPI is related to.
    + Attribute Type: [Text](http://schema.org/Text)
    + Optional

+ `description` : Indicator's description.
    + Normative References: [https://schema.org/description](https://schema.org/description)
    + Optional 

+ `calculationFrequency` : How often the KPI is calculated.
    + Attribute Type: [Text](http://schema.org/Text)
    + Allowed values: one Of (`hourly`, `daily`, `weekly`, `monthly`, `yearly`, `quarterly`, `bimonthly`, `biweekly`)
        + Or any other value meaningful for the application and not covered by the above list. 
    + Mandatory

+ `category` : Indicator's category.
    + Attribute Type: List of  [Text](http://schema.org/Text)
    + Allowed values: (`quantitative`, `qualitative`, `leading`, `lagging`, `input`,
    `process`, `output`, `practical`, `directional`, `actionable`, `financial`).
    Check [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Performance_indicator#Categorization_of_indicators)
    for a description of each category listed above.
        + Any other value meaningful to the application and not covered by the above list. 
    + Mandatory
    
+ `calculatedBy` : The organization in charge of calculating the KPI.
    + Attribute Type: [Organization](https://schema.org/Organization)
    + Optional

+ `calculationMethod` : The calculation method used.
    + Attribute type: [Text](http://schema.org/Text)
    + Allowed values: oneOf ( `manual`, `automatic`, `semiautomatic`)
        +  Any other value meaningful to the application and not covered by the above list. 
    + Optional
    
+ `calculationFormula` : For informative purposes, the formula used for calculating the indicator.
    + Attribute type: [Text](http://schema.org/Text)
    + Optional

+ `aggregatedData` : Entity(ies) and attribute(s) aggregated by the KPI.
    + Attribute type: List of [StructuredValue](https://schema.org/StructuredValue).
        + Subproperties:
            + `entityType` : Entity type which data is aggregated.
                + Type: [Text](http://schema.org/Text)
            + `attrs` : Attributes which value is aggregated.
                + Type: List of [Text](http://schema.org/Text)
    + Optional

+ `calculationPeriod` : KPI's period of time.
    + Attribute type: [StructuredValue](https://schema.org/StructuredValue)
    + Subproperties:
          + `from` : Period start
              + Type: [DateTime](http://schema.org/DateTime)
          + `to` : Period end
              + Type: [DateTime](http://schema.org/DateTime)

+ `currentStanding` : The KPI's current standing as per its `kpiValue`.
    + Attribute type: [Text](http://schema.org/Text)
    + Attribute metadata:
        + `timestamp`: Timestamp when the last update of the attribute happened.
            + Type: [DateTime](http://schema.org/DateTime)
    + Allowed values: one Of (`very good`, `good`, `fair`, `bad`, `very bad`)
    + Optional

+ `kpiValue` :
    + Attribute type: It can be of any type. 
    + Attribute metadata:
        + `timestamp`: Timestamp when the last update of the attribute happened.
            + Type: [DateTime](http://schema.org/DateTime)
    + Mandatory
    
+ `dateCreated` : The date on which the organization created this KPI.
    + Attribute type: [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime)
    + Read-Only. Automatically generated.

+ `dateNextCalculation` : Date on which a new calculation of the KPI should be available.
    + Attribute type: [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime)
    + Optional

+ `dateExpires` : The date on which the KPI will be no longer necessary or meaningful.
    + Attribute type: [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime)
    + Optional
      
+ `dateModified` : Last update date of the KPI data.
    + Attribute type: [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime)
    + Read-Only. Automatically generated.
    
+ `location` :  Location of the area to which the KPI refers to. 
    + Attribute type: GeoJSON geometry. 
    + Optional 

+ `address` :  Civic address of the area to which the KPI refers to. 
    + Attribute type: [https://schema.org/PostalAddress](https://schema.org/PostalAddress)
    + Optional
    
+ `area` : For organizational purposes, it allows to add extra textual geographical information such as district, burough, or any other
hint which can help to identify the KPI coverage.
    + Attribute type: [Text](http://schema.org/Text)
    + Optional

**Note**: JSON Schemas only capture the NGSI simplified representation, this means that to test the JSON schema examples with
a [FIWARE NGSI version 2](http://fiware.github.io/specifications/ngsiv2/stable) API implementation, you need to use the `keyValues`
mode (`options=keyValues`).

## Examples of Use

    {
      "id": "kpi-2016-Ciudad-containers-faults",
      "type": "KeyPerformanceIndicator",
      "name": "Incidencias-Contenedores-Mensual",
      "description": "Number of incidences raised on containers per month",
      "category": ["quantitative"],
      "organization": {
         "name": "Ayuntamiento de Ciudad"
      },
      "provider": {
         "name": "Cleaning Service Provider S.A."
      },
      "kpiValue": 20,
      "currentStanding": "good",
      "calculationPeriod": {
        "from": "2016-06-01",
        "to":   "2016-06-30",
      },
      "calculationMethod": "automatic",
      "calculationFrequency": "monthly",
      "dateModified": "2016-06-29T15:59:09.224Z",
      "dateNextCalculation": "2016-07-31",
      "address": {
        "addressLocality": "Ciudad",
        "addressCountry": "ESP"
      }
    }

## Test it with a real service

## Open issues

+ Taxonomy of services / products / processes for smart cities
+ Taxonomy of success values
