specs/Transportation/RoadSegment/doc/spec.md, before:

# Road Segment

**Note: The latest version of this Data Model can be 
found at [https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.Transportation](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.Transportation)**

## Description

This entity contains a harmonised geographic and contextual description of a
road segment. A collection of road segments are used to describe a
[Road](../../Road/doc/spec.md).

Road segments can include several lanes. This data model allows to convey road
segments made up of heterogeneous lanes (different in their usage, speed,
height, etc.).

Lanes are identified by using integer numbers between `1` and `n`, being number
`1` the lane to the right when going forwards. The `forward` direction is the
direction denoted by the vector which goes from the segment's start point to the
segment's endpoint. This is the same convention as the one used by
[OpenStreetMap](http://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/Forward_%26_backward,_left_%26_right).

This entity is primarily associated with the Automotive and Smart City vertical
segments and related IoT applications.

This data model has been developed in cooperation with mobile operators and the
[GSMA](https://www.gsma.com/iot/iot-big-data/).

## Data Model

The data model is defined as shown below:

-   `id` : Unique identifier.

-   `type` : Entity type. It must be equal to `RoadSegment`.

-   `dataProvider` : Specifies the URL to information about the provider of this
    information

    -   Attribute type: Property. URL
    -   Optional

-   `dateCreated` : Entity's creation timestamp.

    -   Attribute type: Property. [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime)
    -   Read-Only. Automatically generated.

-   `dateModified` : Last update timestamp of this entity.

    -   Attribute type: Property. [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime)
    -   Read-Only. Automatically generated.

-   `source` : The source of this data.

    -   Attribute type: Property. [URL](https://schema.org/URL)
    -   Optional

-   `name` : Name given to this road segment.

    -   Normative References: [https://schema.org/name](https://schema.org/name)
    -   Mandatory

-   `alternateName` : An alias for this road segment.

    -   Normative References:
        [https://schema.org/alternateName](https://schema.org/alternateName)
    -   Optional

-   `refRoad` : Road to which this road segment belongs to.

    -   Attribute type: Property. A reference to an entity of type
        [Road](../../Road/doc/spec.md).
    -   Mandatory

-   `location` : A GeoJSON (multi)line string which defines this road segment.

    -   Attribute type: GeoProperty. `geo:json`.
    -   Normative References:
        [https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7946](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7946)
    -   Mandatory

-   `startPoint` : The start point of this road segment encoded as a GeoJSON
    point.

    -   Attribute type: Property. `geo:json`
    -   Normative References:
        [https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7946](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7946)
    -   Mandatory

-   `endPoint` : The endpoint of this road segment encoded as a GeoJSON point.

    -   Attribute type: Property. `geo:json`
    -   Normative References:
        [https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7946](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7946)
    -   Mandatory

-   `startKilometer` : The kilometer number (measured from the road's start
    point) where this road segmnent starts.

    -   Attribute type: Property. [Number](https://schema.org/Number)
    -   Optional

-   `endKilometer` : The kilometer number (measured from the road's start point)
    where this road segment ends.

    -   Attribute type: Property. [Number](https://schema.org/Number)
    -   Optional

-   `allowedVehicleType` : Vehicle type(s) allowed to transit through this road
    segment.

    -   Attribute type: Property. List of [Text](https://schema.org/Text)
    -   Allowed values: The following values defined by _VehicleTypeEnum_,
        [DATEX 2 version 2.3](http://d2docs.ndwcloud.nu/): -
        (`agriculturalVehicle`, `bicycle`, `bus`, `car`, `caravan`,
        `carWithCaravan`, `carWithTrailer`, `constructionOrMaintenanceVehicle`,
        `lorry`, `moped`, `motorcycle`, `motorcycleWithSideCar`, `motorscooter`,
        `tanker`, `trailer`, `van`, `anyVehicle`)
    -   Mandatory

-   `totalLaneNumber` : Total number of lanes offered by this road segment.

    -   Attribute type: Property. [Number](https://schema.org/Number). Integer greater
        than 0.
    -   Mandatory

-   `length` : Total length of this road segment in kilometers.

    -   Attribute type: Property. [Number](https://schema.org/Number)
    -   See also [https://schema.org/length](https://schema.org/length)
    -   Default unit: Kilometer (Km)
    -   Optional

-   `maximumAllowedSpeed` : Maximum allowed speed while transiting this road
    segment. More restrictive limits might be applied to specific vehicle types
    (trucks, caravans, etc.).

    -   Attribute type: Property. [Number](https://schema.org/Number)
    -   Default unit: Kilometer per hour (Km/h).
    -   Optional

-   `minimumAllowedSpeed` : Minimum allowed speed while transiting this road
    segment.

    -   Attribute type: Property. [Number](https://schema.org/Number)
    -   Default unit: Kilometer per hour (Km/h).
    -   Optional

-   `maximumAllowedHeight` : Maximum allowed height for vehicles transiting this
    road segment.

    -   Attribute type: Property. [Number](https://schema.org/Number)
    -   See also: [https://schema.org/height](https://schema.org/height)
    -   Default unit: Meter (m)
    -   Optional

-   `maximumAllowedWeight` : Maximum allowed weight for vehicles transiting this
    road segment.

    -   Attribute type: Property. [Number](https://schema.org/Number)
    -   See also: [https://schema.org/weight](https://schema.org/weight)
    -   Default unit: Kilogram (Kg)
    -   Optional

-   `width` : Road's segmwent width.

    -   Normative References:
        [https://schema.org/width](https://schema.org/width)
    -   Default unit: Meter (m)
    -   Optional

-   `laneUsage` : This attribute can be used to convey specific parameters
    describing each lane.

    -   Attribute type: Property. List of [Text](https://schema.org/Text)
    -   Allowed values: It must contain a string per road segment lane. The
        element 0 of the array must contain the information of lane 1, and so
        on. Format of the referred string must be:
        `"<lane_direction>, <lane_minimumAllowedSpeed>, <lane_maximumAllowedSpeed>, <lane_maximumAllowedHeight>, <lane_maximumAllowedWeight>"`
        . `<lane_direction>` is a text string with the following allowed values:
        -   `forward`. The lane is currently used in the `forwards` direction.
        -   `backward`. The lane is currently used in the `backwards` direction.
            The only mandatory parameter is `lane_direction`. If not specified,
            the rest of parameters can be assumed to be equal to those specified
            at entity level.
    -   Optional

-   `category` : Allows to convey extra characteristics of a road segment.
    -   Attribute type: Property. List of [Text](https://schema.org/Text)
    -   Allowed values:
        -   `oneway` : Flags whether the road segment can only be used in one
            direction. If not present it means road segment can be used in both
            directions (forwards and backwards). See also
            [http://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/Key:oneway](http://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/Key:oneway)
        -   `toll` : Flags whether the road segment is under toll fees.
        -   `link` : Flags whether this road segment is an auxiliary link
            segment for exiting or entering a road. See
            [https://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/Tag:highway%3Dmotorway_link](https://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/Tag:highway%3Dmotorway_link)
        -   Any other value meaningful to an application.
    -   Optional

The properties `laneUsage` and those which convey the maximum allowed parameters
can be dynamic, for instance, a lane direction can be temporarily changed to
improve traffic conditions.

**Note**: JSON Schemas are intended to capture the data type and associated
constraints of the different Attributes, regardless their final representation
format in NGSI(v2, LD).

## Examples

### Normalized Example

Normalized NGSI response

```json
{
    "id": "Spain-RoadSegment-A62-osm-24702186",
    "type": "RoadSegment",
    "category": {
        "value": "oneway"
    },
    "endPoint": {
        "value": {
            "type": "Point",
            "coordinates": [-4.55167335377909, 41.8570461783071]
        }
    },
    "name": {
        "value": "Valladolid-Due\u00f1as"
    },
    "startPoint": {
        "value": {
            "type": "Point",
            "coordinates": [-4.7299180606009, 41.6844918725019]
        }
    },
    "allowedVehicleType": {
        "value": ["car", "bus", "lorry", "trailer", "tanker", "van", "caravan"]
    },
    "source": {
        "value": "http://wwww.openstreetmap.org"
    },
    "totalLaneNumber": {
        "value": 2
    },
    "location": {
        "type": "geo:json",
        "value": {
            "type": "LineString",
            "coordinates": [
                [-4.7299180606009, 41.6844918725019],
                [-4.72855890957602, 41.6860596957855],
                [-4.5520357341647, 41.8569278186523],
                [-4.55167335377909, 41.8570461783071]
            ]
        }
    },
    "minimumAllowedSpeed": {
        "value": 60
    },
    "refRoad": {
        "type": "Relationship",
        "value": "Spain-Road-A62"
    },
    "maximumAllowedSpeed": {
        "value": 120
    },
    "laneUsage": {
        "value": ["forward", "forward"]
    }
}
```

### key-value pairs Example

Sample uses simplified representation for data consumers `?options=keyValues`

Please note that this road segment's line string has been simplified only four
points just to make the example shorter.

```json
{
    "id": "Spain-RoadSegment-A62-osm-24702186",
    "type": "RoadSegment",
    "name": "Valladolid-Dueñas",
    "category": "oneway",
    "refRoad": "Spain-Road-A62",
    "totalLaneNumber": 2,
    "maximumAllowedSpeed": 120,
    "minimumAllowedSpeed": 60,
    "startPoint": {
        "type": "Point",
        "coordinates": [-4.7299180606009, 41.6844918725019]
    },
    "endPoint": {
        "type": "Point",
        "coordinates": [-4.55167335377909, 41.8570461783071]
    },
    "allowedVehicleType": [
        "car",
        "bus",
        "lorry",
        "trailer",
        "tanker",
        "van",
        "caravan"
    ],
    "location": {
        "type": "LineString",
        "coordinates": [
            [-4.7299180606009, 41.6844918725019],
            [-4.72855890957602, 41.6860596957855],
            [-4.5520357341647, 41.8569278186523],
            [-4.55167335377909, 41.8570461783071]
        ]
    },
    "laneUsage": ["forward", "forward"],
    "source": "http://wwww.openstreetmap.org"
}
```

### LD Example

Sample uses the NGSI-LD representation

```json
{
    "id": "urn:ngsi-ld:RoadSegment:Spain-RoadSegment-A62-osm-24702186",
    "type": "RoadSegment",
    "category": {
        "type": "Property",
        "value": "oneway"
    },
    "endPoint": {
        "type": "Property",
        "value": {
            "type": "Point",
            "coordinates": [-4.55167335377909, 41.8570461783071]
        }
    },
    "name": {
        "type": "Property",
        "value": "Valladolid-Due\u00f1as"
    },
    "startPoint": {
        "type": "Property",
        "value": {
            "type": "Point",
            "coordinates": [-4.7299180606009, 41.6844918725019]
        }
    },
    "allowedVehicleType": {
        "type": "Property",
        "value": ["car", "bus", "lorry", "trailer", "tanker", "van", "caravan"]
    },
    "source": {
        "type": "Property",
        "value": "http://wwww.openstreetmap.org"
    },
    "totalLaneNumber": {
        "type": "Property",
        "value": 2
    },
    "location": {
        "type": "GeoProperty",
        "value": {
            "type": "LineString",
            "coordinates": [
                [-4.7299180606009, 41.6844918725019],
                [-4.72855890957602, 41.6860596957855],
                [-4.5520357341647, 41.8569278186523],
                [-4.55167335377909, 41.8570461783071]
            ]
        }
    },
    "minimumAllowedSpeed": {
        "type": "Property",
        "value": 60
    },
    "refRoad": {
        "type": "Relationship",
        "object": "urn:ngsi-ld:Road:Spain-Road-A62"
    },
    "maximumAllowedSpeed": {
        "type": "Property",
        "value": 120
    },
    "laneUsage": {
        "type": "Property",
        "value": ["forward", "forward"]
    },
    "@context": [
        "https://schema.lab.fiware.org/ld/context",
        "https://uri.etsi.org/ngsi-ld/v1/ngsi-ld-core-context.jsonld"
    ]
}
```

## Use it with a real service

T.B.D.

## Open issues

Commit message:

Updating references to refer to core context.
1.  Prefer core context definitios
    *  https://uri.etsi.org/ngsi-ld/name is used over schema.org
    *  https://uri.etsi.org/ngsi-ld/description is used over schema.org

    In both cases a link to normative reference remains.

2. Schema.org links for Attribute Types have been added.
    *  Text and URL link to schema.org
    *  name and description are of type **Text**
    *  address is of type **address**
    * geo:json is a GeoProperty with appropriate normative reference.

specs/Transportation/RoadSegment/doc/spec.md, after:

# Road Segment

**Note: The latest version of this Data Model can be
found at [https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.Transportation](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.Transportation)**

## Description

This entity contains a harmonised geographic and contextual description of a
road segment. A collection of road segments are used to describe a
[Road](../../Road/doc/spec.md).

Road segments can include several lanes. This data model allows to convey road
segments made up of heterogeneous lanes (different in their usage, speed,
height, etc.).

Lanes are identified by using integer numbers between `1` and `n`, being number
`1` the lane to the right when going forwards. The `forward` direction is the
direction denoted by the vector which goes from the segment's start point to the
segment's endpoint. This is the same convention as the one used by
[OpenStreetMap](http://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/Forward_%26_backward,_left_%26_right).

This entity is primarily associated with the Automotive and Smart City vertical
segments and related IoT applications.

This data model has been developed in cooperation with mobile operators and the
[GSMA](https://www.gsma.com/iot/iot-big-data/).

## Data Model

The data model is defined as shown below:

-   `id` : Unique identifier.

-   `type` : Entity type. It must be equal to `RoadSegment`.

-   `dataProvider` : Specifies the URL to information about the provider of this
    information

    -   Attribute type: Property. [URL](https://schema.org/URL)
    -   Optional

-   `dateCreated` : Entity's creation timestamp.

    -   Attribute type: Property. [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime)
    -   Read-Only. Automatically generated.

-   `dateModified` : Last update timestamp of this entity.

    -   Attribute type: Property. [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime)
    -   Read-Only. Automatically generated.

-   `source` : The source of this data.

    -   Attribute type: Property. [URL](https://schema.org/URL)
    -   Optional

-   `name` : Name given to this road segment.

    -   Attribute type: Property. [Text](https://schema.org/Text).
    -   Normative References: `https://uri.etsi.org/ngsi-ld/name` equivalent to [name](https://schema.org/name)
    -   Mandatory

-   `alternateName` : An alias for this road segment.
    -   Attribute type: Property. [Text](https://schema.org/Text)
    -   Normative References:
        [https://schema.org/alternateName](https://schema.org/alternateName)
    -   Optional

-   `refRoad` : Road to which this road segment belongs to.

    -   Attribute type: Property. A reference to an entity of type
        [Road](../../Road/doc/spec.md).
    -   Mandatory

-   `location` : A GeoJSON (multi)line string which defines this road segment.

    -   Attribute type: GeoProperty. `geo:json`.
    -   Normative References:
        [https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7946](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7946)
    -   Mandatory

-   `startPoint` : The start point of this road segment encoded as a GeoJSON
    point.

    -   Attribute type: Property. `geo:json`
    -   Normative References:
        [https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7946](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7946)
    -   Mandatory

-   `endPoint` : The endpoint of this road segment encoded as a GeoJSON point.

    -   Attribute type: Property. `geo:json`
    -   Normative References:
        [https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7946](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7946)
    -   Mandatory

-   `startKilometer` : The kilometer number (measured from the road's start
    point) where this road segmnent starts.

    -   Attribute type: Property. [Number](https://schema.org/Number)
    -   Optional

-   `endKilometer` : The kilometer number (measured from the road's start point)
    where this road segment ends.

    -   Attribute type: Property. [Number](https://schema.org/Number)
    -   Optional

-   `allowedVehicleType` : Vehicle type(s) allowed to transit through this road
    segment.

    -   Attribute type: Property. List of [Text](https://schema.org/Text)
    -   Allowed values: The following values defined by _VehicleTypeEnum_,
        [DATEX 2 version 2.3](http://d2docs.ndwcloud.nu/): -
        (`agriculturalVehicle`, `bicycle`, `bus`, `car`, `caravan`,
        `carWithCaravan`, `carWithTrailer`, `constructionOrMaintenanceVehicle`,
        `lorry`, `moped`, `motorcycle`, `motorcycleWithSideCar`, `motorscooter`,
        `tanker`, `trailer`, `van`, `anyVehicle`)
    -   Mandatory

-   `totalLaneNumber` : Total number of lanes offered by this road segment.

    -   Attribute type: Property. [Number](https://schema.org/Number). Integer greater
        than 0.
    -   Mandatory

-   `length` : Total length of this road segment in kilometers.

    -   Attribute type: Property. [Number](https://schema.org/Number)
    -   See also [https://schema.org/length](https://schema.org/length)
    -   Default unit: Kilometer (Km)
    -   Optional

-   `maximumAllowedSpeed` : Maximum allowed speed while transiting this road
    segment. More restrictive limits might be applied to specific vehicle types
    (trucks, caravans, etc.).

    -   Attribute type: Property. [Number](https://schema.org/Number)
    -   Default unit: Kilometer per hour (Km/h).
    -   Optional

-   `minimumAllowedSpeed` : Minimum allowed speed while transiting this road
    segment.

    -   Attribute type: Property. [Number](https://schema.org/Number)
    -   Default unit: Kilometer per hour (Km/h).
    -   Optional

-   `maximumAllowedHeight` : Maximum allowed height for vehicles transiting this
    road segment.

    -   Attribute type: Property. [Number](https://schema.org/Number)
    -   See also: [https://schema.org/height](https://schema.org/height)
    -   Default unit: Meter (m)
    -   Optional

-   `maximumAllowedWeight` : Maximum allowed weight for vehicles transiting this
    road segment.

    -   Attribute type: Property. [Number](https://schema.org/Number)
    -   See also: [https://schema.org/weight](https://schema.org/weight)
    -   Default unit: Kilogram (Kg)
    -   Optional

-   `width` : Road's segmwent width.

    -   Normative References:
        [https://schema.org/width](https://schema.org/width)
    -   Default unit: Meter (m)
    -   Optional

-   `laneUsage` : This attribute can be used to convey specific parameters
    describing each lane.

    -   Attribute type: Property. List of [Text](https://schema.org/Text)
    -   Allowed values: It must contain a string per road segment lane. The
        element 0 of the array must contain the information of lane 1, and so
        on. Format of the referred string must be:
        `"<lane_direction>, <lane_minimumAllowedSpeed>, <lane_maximumAllowedSpeed>, <lane_maximumAllowedHeight>, <lane_maximumAllowedWeight>"`
        . `<lane_direction>` is a text string with the following allowed values:
        -   `forward`. The lane is currently used in the `forwards` direction.
        -   `backward`. The lane is currently used in the `backwards` direction.
            The only mandatory parameter is `lane_direction`. If not specified,
            the rest of parameters can be assumed to be equal to those specified
            at entity level.
    -   Optional

-   `category` : Allows to convey extra characteristics of a road segment.
    -   Attribute type: Property. List of [Text](https://schema.org/Text)
    -   Allowed values:
        -   `oneway` : Flags whether the road segment can only be used in one
            direction. If not present it means road segment can be used in both
            directions (forwards and backwards). See also
            [http://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/Key:oneway](http://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/Key:oneway)
        -   `toll` : Flags whether the road segment is under toll fees.
        -   `link` : Flags whether this road segment is an auxiliary link
            segment for exiting or entering a road. See
            [https://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/Tag:highway%3Dmotorway_link](https://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/Tag:highway%3Dmotorway_link)
        -   Any other value meaningful to an application.
    -   Optional

The properties `laneUsage` and those which convey the maximum allowed parameters
can be dynamic, for instance, a lane direction can be temporarily changed to
improve traffic conditions.

**Note**: JSON Schemas are intended to capture the data type and associated
constraints of the different Attributes, regardless their final representation
format in NGSI(v2, LD).

## Examples

### Normalized Example

Normalized NGSI response

```json
{
    "id": "Spain-RoadSegment-A62-osm-24702186",
    "type": "RoadSegment",
    "category": {
        "value": "oneway"
    },
    "endPoint": {
        "value": {
            "type": "Point",
            "coordinates": [-4.55167335377909, 41.8570461783071]
        }
    },
    "name": {
        "value": "Valladolid-Due\u00f1as"
    },
    "startPoint": {
        "value": {
            "type": "Point",
            "coordinates": [-4.7299180606009, 41.6844918725019]
        }
    },
    "allowedVehicleType": {
        "value": ["car", "bus", "lorry", "trailer", "tanker", "van", "caravan"]
    },
    "source": {
        "value": "http://wwww.openstreetmap.org"
    },
    "totalLaneNumber": {
        "value": 2
    },
    "location": {
        "type": "geo:json",
        "value": {
            "type": "LineString",
            "coordinates": [
                [-4.7299180606009, 41.6844918725019],
                [-4.72855890957602, 41.6860596957855],
                [-4.5520357341647, 41.8569278186523],
                [-4.55167335377909, 41.8570461783071]
            ]
        }
    },
    "minimumAllowedSpeed": {
        "value": 60
    },
    "refRoad": {
        "type": "Relationship",
        "value": "Spain-Road-A62"
    },
    "maximumAllowedSpeed": {
        "value": 120
    },
    "laneUsage": {
        "value": ["forward", "forward"]
    }
}
```

### key-value pairs Example

Sample uses simplified representation for data consumers `?options=keyValues`

Please note that this road segment's line string has been simplified only four
points just to make the example shorter.

```json
{
    "id": "Spain-RoadSegment-A62-osm-24702186",
    "type": "RoadSegment",
    "name": "Valladolid-Dueñas",
    "category": "oneway",
    "refRoad": "Spain-Road-A62",
    "totalLaneNumber": 2,
    "maximumAllowedSpeed": 120,
    "minimumAllowedSpeed": 60,
    "startPoint": {
        "type": "Point",
        "coordinates": [-4.7299180606009, 41.6844918725019]
    },
    "endPoint": {
        "type": "Point",
        "coordinates": [-4.55167335377909, 41.8570461783071]
    },
    "allowedVehicleType": [
        "car",
        "bus",
        "lorry",
        "trailer",
        "tanker",
        "van",
        "caravan"
    ],
    "location": {
        "type": "LineString",
        "coordinates": [
            [-4.7299180606009, 41.6844918725019],
            [-4.72855890957602, 41.6860596957855],
            [-4.5520357341647, 41.8569278186523],
            [-4.55167335377909, 41.8570461783071]
        ]
    },
    "laneUsage": ["forward", "forward"],
    "source": "http://wwww.openstreetmap.org"
}
```

### LD Example

Sample uses the NGSI-LD representation

```json
{
    "id": "urn:ngsi-ld:RoadSegment:Spain-RoadSegment-A62-osm-24702186",
    "type": "RoadSegment",
    "category": {
        "type": "Property",
        "value": "oneway"
    },
    "endPoint": {
        "type": "Property",
        "value": {
            "type": "Point",
            "coordinates": [-4.55167335377909, 41.8570461783071]
        }
    },
    "name": {
        "type": "Property",
        "value": "Valladolid-Due\u00f1as"
    },
    "startPoint": {
        "type": "Property",
        "value": {
            "type": "Point",
            "coordinates": [-4.7299180606009, 41.6844918725019]
        }
    },
    "allowedVehicleType": {
        "type": "Property",
        "value": ["car", "bus", "lorry", "trailer", "tanker", "van", "caravan"]
    },
    "source": {
        "type": "Property",
        "value": "http://wwww.openstreetmap.org"
    },
    "totalLaneNumber": {
        "type": "Property",
        "value": 2
    },
    "location": {
        "type": "GeoProperty",
        "value": {
            "type": "LineString",
            "coordinates": [
                [-4.7299180606009, 41.6844918725019],
                [-4.72855890957602, 41.6860596957855],
                [-4.5520357341647, 41.8569278186523],
                [-4.55167335377909, 41.8570461783071]
            ]
        }
    },
    "minimumAllowedSpeed": {
        "type": "Property",
        "value": 60
    },
    "refRoad": {
        "type": "Relationship",
        "object": "urn:ngsi-ld:Road:Spain-Road-A62"
    },
    "maximumAllowedSpeed": {
        "type": "Property",
        "value": 120
    },
    "laneUsage": {
        "type": "Property",
        "value": ["forward", "forward"]
    },
    "@context": [
        "https://schema.lab.fiware.org/ld/context",
        "https://uri.etsi.org/ngsi-ld/v1/ngsi-ld-core-context.jsonld"
    ]
}
```

## Use it with a real service

T.B.D.

## Open issues
