IssueTracking/Open311_ServiceType/doc/spec.md, before:

# Open 311 Service Type

As per [Open311](http://wiki.open311.org/GeoReport_v2/#get-service-list) an entity of type
`ServiceType` is an acceptable 311 service request type. A request type can be unique to the city/jurisdiction.

*Please note that this data model has not been harmonized as per FIWARE/OASC style. We have decided to keep
the same property names and structure, although we strongly believe the Open311 model can be leveraged.*

## Data Model

+ `id` : Entity's unique identifier. 

+ `type` : It must be `Open311:ServiceType`.

The following fields defined by Open 311, [Service List](http://wiki.open311.org/GeoReport_v2/#get-service-list)
are allowed to be attributes of this entity type:

+ `jurisdiction_id`

+ `type`. To avoid collision with the NGSI entity type it has been renamed to `open311:type`. 

+ `service_code`

+ `service_name`

+ `description`

+ `keywords`

+ `group`

+ `metadata`. This field is not strictly needed as the proposed entity encompasses the attribute definition as well.
If defined, its value must be `true` if the `attributes` property is defined and its array value is not empty. Otherwise
it must be equal to `false`. 


+ `attributes`. As per the [Service Definition](http://wiki.open311.org/GeoReport_v2/#get-service-definition)
structure defined by Open 311. 


FIWARE / OASC recommends the following additional fields as an extension to the Open 311 model:

+ `location` :  Location of the area on which this type of service is provided. 
    + Attribute type: GeoJSON geometry. 
    + Optional 

+ `provider` :  Provider of the service.
    + Normative references: [https://schema.org/provider](https://schema.org/provider) 
    + Optional

+ `dateCreated` : The date on which the service type was created. This date might be different than the entity creation date.
    + Attribute type: [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime)
    + Optional

+ `dateModified` : Last update date of this service type.
    + Attribute type: [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime)
    + Optional

**Note**: JSON Schemas only capture the NGSI simplified representation, this means that to test the JSON schema examples with
a [FIWARE NGSI version 2](http://fiware.github.io/specifications/ngsiv2/stable) API implementation, you need to use the `keyValues`
mode (`options=keyValues`).

## Examples of use

    {
      "id": "o311:servicetype-guadalajara-sidewalks",
      "type": "Open311:ServiceType",
      "dateCreated": "2007-01-01",
      "jurisdiction_id": "www.smartguadalajara.com",
      "open311:type": "realtime",
      "service_code": 234,
      "service_name": "Aceras",
      "description": "When a sidewalk is broken or dirty allows citizens to request a fix",
      "keywords": "street,sidewalk, cleaning, repair",
      "group": "street",
      "attributes": [
        {
          "variable": true,
          "code": "ISSUE_TYPE",
          "datatype": "singlevaluelist",
          "required": true,
          "datatype_description": null,
          "order": 1,
          "description": "What is the identified problem at the sidewalk?",
          "values": [
            {
              "key": 123,
              "name": "Bump"
            },
            {
              "key": 124,
              "name":"Dirty"
            }
          ]
        }
      ]
    }


## Test it with a real service

## Open issues

Commit message:

ADD read-only automatically generated to dateCreated and dateModified attributes/metadata

IssueTracking/Open311_ServiceType/doc/spec.md, after:

# Open 311 Service Type

As per [Open311](http://wiki.open311.org/GeoReport_v2/#get-service-list) an entity of type
`ServiceType` is an acceptable 311 service request type. A request type can be unique to the city/jurisdiction.

*Please note that this data model has not been harmonized as per FIWARE/OASC style. We have decided to keep
the same property names and structure, although we strongly believe the Open311 model can be leveraged.*

## Data Model

+ `id` : Entity's unique identifier. 

+ `type` : It must be `Open311:ServiceType`.

The following fields defined by Open 311, [Service List](http://wiki.open311.org/GeoReport_v2/#get-service-list)
are allowed to be attributes of this entity type:

+ `jurisdiction_id`

+ `type`. To avoid collision with the NGSI entity type it has been renamed to `open311:type`. 

+ `service_code`

+ `service_name`

+ `description`

+ `keywords`

+ `group`

+ `metadata`. This field is not strictly needed as the proposed entity encompasses the attribute definition as well.
If defined, its value must be `true` if the `attributes` property is defined and its array value is not empty. Otherwise
it must be equal to `false`. 


+ `attributes`. As per the [Service Definition](http://wiki.open311.org/GeoReport_v2/#get-service-definition)
structure defined by Open 311. 


FIWARE / OASC recommends the following additional fields as an extension to the Open 311 model:

+ `location` :  Location of the area on which this type of service is provided. 
    + Attribute type: GeoJSON geometry. 
    + Optional 

+ `provider` :  Provider of the service.
    + Normative references: [https://schema.org/provider](https://schema.org/provider) 
    + Optional

+ `dateCreated` : The date on which the service type was created.
    + Attribute type: [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime)
    + Read-Only. Automatically generated.

+ `dateModified` : Last update date of this service type.
    + Attribute type: [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime)
    + Read-Only. Automatically generated.

**Note**: JSON Schemas only capture the NGSI simplified representation, this means that to test the JSON schema examples with
a [FIWARE NGSI version 2](http://fiware.github.io/specifications/ngsiv2/stable) API implementation, you need to use the `keyValues`
mode (`options=keyValues`).

## Examples of use

    {
      "id": "o311:servicetype-guadalajara-sidewalks",
      "type": "Open311:ServiceType",
      "dateCreated": "2007-01-01",
      "jurisdiction_id": "www.smartguadalajara.com",
      "open311:type": "realtime",
      "service_code": 234,
      "service_name": "Aceras",
      "description": "When a sidewalk is broken or dirty allows citizens to request a fix",
      "keywords": "street,sidewalk, cleaning, repair",
      "group": "street",
      "attributes": [
        {
          "variable": true,
          "code": "ISSUE_TYPE",
          "datatype": "singlevaluelist",
          "required": true,
          "datatype_description": null,
          "order": 1,
          "description": "What is the identified problem at the sidewalk?",
          "values": [
            {
              "key": 123,
              "name": "Bump"
            },
            {
              "key": 124,
              "name":"Dirty"
            }
          ]
        }
      ]
    }


## Test it with a real service

## Open issues
