specs/User/Activity/doc/spec.md, before:

# Activity

## Description

This entity represents the current activity performed by a User. It can be used
in different scenarios, from modeling social activities on a site (e.g. Federico
shares a picture of his dog) to real life activities (e.g. Federico drives his
car to work). The model is largely inspired by
[https://www.w3.org/TR/activitystreams-core](https://www.w3.org/TR/activitystreams-core).

The model represents user activities using the following predicate structure:
`(Agent, Verb, Object*, Target*)`, where `Object` and `Target` are optional.

The `Agent` is identified by the attribute `refAgent`, the `Verb` is identified
by `activityType`, the `Object` is identified by `refObject`, and the `Target`
is identified by `refTarget`.

## Data Model

A JSON Schema corresponding to this data model can be found
[here](https://fiware.github.io/dataModels/specs/User/Activity/schema.json).

-   `id` : Unique identifier.

-   `type` : Entity type. It must be equal to `UserActivity`.

-   `dateModified` : Last update timestamp of this entity.

    -   Attribute type: [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime)
    -   Read-Only. Automatically generated.

-   `dateCreated` : Entity's creation timestamp.

    -   Attribute type: [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime)
    -   Read-Only. Automatically generated.

-   `dateActivityStarted` : Activity's start timestamp.

    -   Attribute type: [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime)
    -   Mandatory

-   `dateActivityEnded` : Activity's end timestamp.

    -   Attribute type: [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime)
    -   Optional

-   `refAgent` : Reference to the agent (i.e. a person) performing the activity.
    It may be another NGSI Entity or any `Agent` identified by an URI.

    -   Attribute type: Reference to an Entity or
        [https://schema.org/URL](https://schema.org/URL).
    -   Mandatory

-   `activityType` : The action performed (e.g. Drive).

    -   Attribute type: [Text](https://schema.org/Text)
    -   Normative References:
        [https://schema.org/Action](https://schema.org/Action),
        [https://www.w3.org/TR/activitystreams-vocabulary/#activity-types](https://www.w3.org/TR/activitystreams-vocabulary/#activity-types),
        [https://health-lifesci.schema.org/PhysicalActivityCategory](https://health-lifesci.schema.org/PhysicalActivityCategory)
    -   Mandatory

-   `refObject` : Reference to the object of the action (e.g. Car1). It may be
    another NGSI Entity or any `Object` identified by an URI.

    -   Attribute type: Reference to an Entity or
        [https://schema.org/URL](https://schema.org/URL).
    -   Optional

-   `refTarget` : Reference to the target of the action (e.g. Office1).
    -   Attribute type: Reference to an Entity or
        [https://schema.org/URL](https://schema.org/URL).
    -   Optional

**Note**: JSON Schemas only capture the NGSI simplified representation, this
means that to test the JSON schema examples with a
[FIWARE NGSI version 2](http://fiware.github.io/specifications/ngsiv2/stable)
API implementation, you need to use the `keyValues` mode (`options=keyValues`).

## Examples of use

```
{
  "id": "UserActivity1",
  "type": "UserActivity",
  "activityType": "Drive",
  "description": "User1 drive Car1 to Office1",
  "dateActivityStarted": "2016-11-30T07:00:00.00Z",
  "refObject": "Car1",
  "refTarget": "Office1",
  "refAgent": "User1"
}
```

## Use it with a real service

T.B.D.

## Open Issues

-   [ ] Discuss if location should be included as part of the model. Consider
        that the model is referenced in UserContext, where user location is
        already modelled.

Commit message:

added source and dataProvider attribute to the USER Folder

specs/User/Activity/doc/spec.md, after:

# Activity

## Description

This entity represents the current activity performed by a User. It can be used
in different scenarios, from modeling social activities on a site (e.g. Federico
shares a picture of his dog) to real life activities (e.g. Federico drives his
car to work). The model is largely inspired by
[https://www.w3.org/TR/activitystreams-core](https://www.w3.org/TR/activitystreams-core).

The model represents user activities using the following predicate structure:
`(Agent, Verb, Object*, Target*)`, where `Object` and `Target` are optional.

The `Agent` is identified by the attribute `refAgent`, the `Verb` is identified
by `activityType`, the `Object` is identified by `refObject`, and the `Target`
is identified by `refTarget`.

## Data Model

A JSON Schema corresponding to this data model can be found
[here](https://fiware.github.io/dataModels/specs/User/Activity/schema.json).

-   `id` : Unique identifier.

-   `type` : Entity type. It must be equal to `UserActivity`.

- `source` : A sequence of characters giving the source of the entity data.
  - Attribute type: Text or URL
  - Optional

- `dataProvider` : Specifies the URL to information about the provider of this information
  - Attribute type: URL
  - Optional

-   `dateModified` : Last update timestamp of this entity.

    -   Attribute type: [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime)
    -   Read-Only. Automatically generated.

-   `dateCreated` : Entity's creation timestamp.

    -   Attribute type: [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime)
    -   Read-Only. Automatically generated.

-   `dateActivityStarted` : Activity's start timestamp.

    -   Attribute type: [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime)
    -   Mandatory

-   `dateActivityEnded` : Activity's end timestamp.

    -   Attribute type: [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime)
    -   Optional

-   `refAgent` : Reference to the agent (i.e. a person) performing the activity.
    It may be another NGSI Entity or any `Agent` identified by an URI.

    -   Attribute type: Reference to an Entity or
        [https://schema.org/URL](https://schema.org/URL).
    -   Mandatory

-   `activityType` : The action performed (e.g. Drive).

    -   Attribute type: [Text](https://schema.org/Text)
    -   Normative References:
        [https://schema.org/Action](https://schema.org/Action),
        [https://www.w3.org/TR/activitystreams-vocabulary/#activity-types](https://www.w3.org/TR/activitystreams-vocabulary/#activity-types),
        [https://health-lifesci.schema.org/PhysicalActivityCategory](https://health-lifesci.schema.org/PhysicalActivityCategory)
    -   Mandatory

-   `refObject` : Reference to the object of the action (e.g. Car1). It may be
    another NGSI Entity or any `Object` identified by an URI.

    -   Attribute type: Reference to an Entity or
        [https://schema.org/URL](https://schema.org/URL).
    -   Optional

-   `refTarget` : Reference to the target of the action (e.g. Office1).
    -   Attribute type: Reference to an Entity or
        [https://schema.org/URL](https://schema.org/URL).
    -   Optional

**Note**: JSON Schemas only capture the NGSI simplified representation, this
means that to test the JSON schema examples with a
[FIWARE NGSI version 2](http://fiware.github.io/specifications/ngsiv2/stable)
API implementation, you need to use the `keyValues` mode (`options=keyValues`).

## Examples of use

```
{
  "id": "UserActivity1",
  "type": "UserActivity",
  "activityType": "Drive",
  "description": "User1 drive Car1 to Office1",
  "dateActivityStarted": "2016-11-30T07:00:00.00Z",
  "refObject": "Car1",
  "refTarget": "Office1",
  "refAgent": "User1"
}
```

## Use it with a real service

T.B.D.

## Open Issues

-   [ ] Discuss if location should be included as part of the model. Consider
        that the model is referenced in UserContext, where user location is
        already modelled.
