specs/Transportation/CrowdFlowObserved/doc/spec.md, before:

# Crowd Flow Observed

**Note: The latest version of this Data Model can be 
found at [https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.Transportation](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.Transportation)**

## Description

An observation related to the movement of people at a certain place and time.

## Data Model

The data model is defined as shown below:

-   `id`: Entity ID.

    -   It shall be `urn:ngsi-ld:CrowdFlowObserved:<identifier>` being
        `identifier` a unique identifier.

-   `type`: Entity type.

    -   It shall be equal to `CrowdFlowObserved`.

-   `dataProvider` : Specifies the URL to information about the provider of this
    information

    -   Attribute type: Property. URL
    -   Optional

-   `dateCreated` : Entity's creation timestamp. (`createdAt` in NGSI-LD)

    -   Attribute type: Property. [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime)
    -   Read-Only. Automatically generated.

-   `dateModified` : Last update timestamp of this Entity. (`modifiedAt` in
    NGSI-LD)

    -   Attribute type: Property. [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime)
    -   Read-Only. Automatically generated.

-   `source` : A sequence of characters giving the original source of the Entity
    data as a URL.

    -   Attribute type: Property. [URL](https://schema.org/URL)
    -   Mandatory

-   `location` : Location of this crowd flow observation represented by a
    GeoJSON geometry.

    -   Attribute type: `geo:json`. (`GeoProperty`)
    -   Normative References:
        [https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7946](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7946)
    -   Mandatory if `refRoadSegment` or `address` are not present.

-   `address` : Civic address of this crowd flow observation.

    -   Normative References:
        [https://schema.org/address](https://schema.org/address)
    -   Mandatory if `location` or `refRoadSegment` are not present.

-   `refRoadSegment` : Concerned road segment on which the observation has been
    mede.

    -   Attribute type: Relationship. Reference to an entity of type
        [RoadSegment](../../RoadSegment/doc/spec.md).
    -   Mandatory if `location` or `address` are not present.

-   `dateObserved` : The date and time of this observation in ISO8601 UTC
    format. It can be represented by an specific time instant or by an ISO8601
    interval. As a workaround for the lack of support of Orion Context Broker
    for datetime intervals, it can be used two separate attributes:
    `dateObservedFrom`, `dateObservedTo`.

    -   Attribute type: GeoProperty. [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime) or an ISO8601
        interval represented as [Text](https://schema.org/Text).
    -   Mandatory

-   `dateObservedFrom` : Observation period start date and time. See
    `dateObserved`.

    -   Attribute type: TemporalProperty.
        [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime).
    -   Optional

-   `dateObservedTo` : Observation period end date and time. See `dateObserved`.

    -   Attribute type: TemporalProperty.
        [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime).
    -   Optional

-   `name` : Name given to this observation.

    -   Normative References: [https://schema.org/name](https://schema.org/name)
    -   Optional

-   `description` : Description of this observation.

    -   Normative References:
        [https://schema.org/description](https://schema.org/description)
    -   Optional

-   `peopleCount` : Total number of people detected during this observation
    period.

    -   Attribute type: Property. [Number](https://schema.org/Number). Positive integer.
    -   Optional

-   `occupancy` : Fraction of the observation time where a person has been
    occupying the observed walkway.

    -   Attribute type: Property. [Number](https://schema.org/Number) between 0
        and 1.
    -   Optional

-   `averageCrowdSpeed` : Average speed of the crowd transiting during the
    observation period.

    -   Attribute type: Property. [Number](https://schema.org/Number)
    -   Default unit: Kilometer per hour (Km/h).
    -   Optional

-   `congested` : Flags whether there was a crowd congestion during the
    observation period in the referred walkway. The absence of this attribute
    means no crowd congestion.

    -   Attribute type: Property. [Boolean](https://schema.org/Boolean)
    -   Optional

-   `averageHeadwayTime` : Average headway time. Headway time is the time
    elapsed between two consecutive persons.

    -   Attribute type: Property. [Number](https://schema.org/Number)
    -   Default unit: second (s)
    -   Optional

-   `direction` : Usual direction of travel in the walkway referred by this
    observation with respect to the city center.
    -   Attribute type: Property. [Text](https://schema.org/Text)
    -   Allowed values: (`inbound`, `outbound`).
    -   Optional

## Examples

### Normalized Example

Normalized NGSI response

```json
{
    "id": "urn:ngsi-ld:CrowdFlowObserved:Valladolid_1",
    "type": "CrowdFlowObserved",
    "dateObserved": {
        "value": "2018-08-07T11:10:00/2018-08-07T11:15:00"
    },
    "direction": {
        "value": "inbound"
    },
    "dateObservedFrom": {
        "type": "DateTime",
        "value": "2018-08-07T11:10:00Z"
    },
    "peopleCount": {
        "value": 100
    },
    "averageHeadwayTime": {
        "value": 5
    },
    "dateObservedTo": {
        "type": "DateTime",
        "value": "2018-08-07T11:15:00Z"
    },
    "location": {
        "type": "geo:json",
        "value": {
            "type": "LineString",
            "coordinates": [
                [-4.73735395519672, 41.6538181849672],
                [-4.73414858659993, 41.6600594193478],
                [-4.73447575302641, 41.659585195093]
            ]
        }
    },
    "congested": {
        "value": false
    }
}
```

### key-value pairs Example

Sample uses simplified representation for data consumers `?options=keyValues`

```json
{
    "id": "urn:ngsi-ld:CrowdFlowObserved:Valladolid_1",
    "type": "CrowdFlowObserved",
    "dateObservedFrom": "2018-08-07T11:10:00",
    "dateObservedTo": "2018-08-07T11:15:00",
    "peopleCount": 100,
    "averageHeadwayTime": 5,
    "congested": false,
    "direction": "inbound",
    "location": {
        "type": "LineString",
        "coordinates": [
            [-4.73735395519672, 41.6538181849672],
            [-4.73414858659993, 41.6600594193478],
            [-4.73447575302641, 41.659585195093]
        ]
    }
}
```

### LD Example

Sample uses the NGSI-LD representation

```json
{
    "id": "urn:ngsi-ld:CrowdFlowObserved:Valladolid_1",
    "type": "CrowdFlowObserved",
    "dateObserved": {
        "type": "Property",
        "value": "2018-08-07T11:10:00/2018-08-07T11:15:00"
    },
    "direction": {
        "type": "Property",
        "value": "inbound"
    },
    "dateObservedFrom": {
        "type": "Property",
        "value": {
            "@type": "DateTime",
            "@value": "2018-08-07T11:10:00Z"
        }
    },
    "peopleCount": {
        "type": "Property",
        "value": 100
    },
    "averageHeadwayTime": {
        "type": "Property",
        "value": 5
    },
    "dateObservedTo": {
        "type": "Property",
        "value": {
            "@type": "DateTime",
            "@value": "2018-08-07T11:15:00Z"
        }
    },
    "location": {
        "type": "GeoProperty",
        "value": {
            "type": "LineString",
            "coordinates": [
                [-4.73735395519672, 41.6538181849672],
                [-4.73414858659993, 41.6600594193478],
                [-4.73447575302641, 41.659585195093]
            ]
        }
    },
    "congested": {
        "type": "Property",
        "value": false
    },
    "@context": [
        "https://schema.lab.fiware.org/ld/context",
        "https://uri.etsi.org/ngsi-ld/v1/ngsi-ld-core-context.jsonld"
    ]
}
```

### Open issues

Commit message:

Updating references to refer to core context.
1.  Prefer core context definitios
    *  https://uri.etsi.org/ngsi-ld/name is used over schema.org
    *  https://uri.etsi.org/ngsi-ld/description is used over schema.org

    In both cases a link to normative reference remains.

2. Schema.org links for Attribute Types have been added.
    *  Text and URL link to schema.org
    *  name and description are of type **Text**
    *  address is of type **address**
    * geo:json is a GeoProperty with appropriate normative reference.

specs/Transportation/CrowdFlowObserved/doc/spec.md, after:

# Crowd Flow Observed

**Note: The latest version of this Data Model can be
found at [https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.Transportation](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.Transportation)**

## Description

An observation related to the movement of people at a certain place and time.

## Data Model

The data model is defined as shown below:

-   `id`: Entity ID.

    -   It shall be `urn:ngsi-ld:CrowdFlowObserved:<identifier>` being
        `identifier` a unique identifier.

-   `type`: Entity type.

    -   It shall be equal to `CrowdFlowObserved`.

-   `dataProvider` : Specifies the URL to information about the provider of this
    information

    -   Attribute type: Property. [URL](https://schema.org/URL)
    -   Optional

-   `dateCreated` : Entity's creation timestamp. (`createdAt` in NGSI-LD)

    -   Attribute type: Property. [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime)
    -   Read-Only. Automatically generated.

-   `dateModified` : Last update timestamp of this Entity. (`modifiedAt` in
    NGSI-LD)

    -   Attribute type: Property. [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime)
    -   Read-Only. Automatically generated.

-   `source` : A sequence of characters giving the original source of the Entity
    data as a URL.

    -   Attribute type: Property. [URL](https://schema.org/URL)
    -   Mandatory

-   `location` : Location of this crowd flow observation represented by a
    GeoJSON geometry.

    -   Attribute type: `geo:json`. (`GeoProperty`)
    -   Normative References:
        [https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7946](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7946)
    -   Mandatory if `refRoadSegment` or `address` are not present.

-   `address` : Civic address of this crowd flow observation.

    -   Attribute type: Property. [Address](https://schema.org/address)
    -   Normative References:
        [https://schema.org/address](https://schema.org/address)
    -   Mandatory if `location` or `refRoadSegment` are not present.

-   `refRoadSegment` : Concerned road segment on which the observation has been
    mede.

    -   Attribute type: Relationship. Reference to an entity of type
        [RoadSegment](../../RoadSegment/doc/spec.md).
    -   Mandatory if `location` or `address` are not present.

-   `dateObserved` : The date and time of this observation in ISO8601 UTC
    format. It can be represented by an specific time instant or by an ISO8601
    interval. As a workaround for the lack of support of Orion Context Broker
    for datetime intervals, it can be used two separate attributes:
    `dateObservedFrom`, `dateObservedTo`.

    -   Attribute type: GeoProperty. [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime) or an ISO8601
        interval represented as [Text](https://schema.org/Text).
    -   Mandatory

-   `dateObservedFrom` : Observation period start date and time. See
    `dateObserved`.

    -   Attribute type: TemporalProperty.
        [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime).
    -   Optional

-   `dateObservedTo` : Observation period end date and time. See `dateObserved`.

    -   Attribute type: TemporalProperty.
        [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime).
    -   Optional

-   `name` : Name given to this observation.

    -   Attribute type: Property. [Text](https://schema.org/Text).
    -   Normative References: `https://uri.etsi.org/ngsi-ld/name` equivalent to [name](https://schema.org/name)
    -   Optional

-   `description` : Description of this observation.

    -   Normative References:
        [https://schema.org/description](https://schema.org/description)
    -   Optional

-   `peopleCount` : Total number of people detected during this observation
    period.

    -   Attribute type: Property. [Number](https://schema.org/Number). Positive integer.
    -   Optional

-   `occupancy` : Fraction of the observation time where a person has been
    occupying the observed walkway.

    -   Attribute type: Property. [Number](https://schema.org/Number) between 0
        and 1.
    -   Optional

-   `averageCrowdSpeed` : Average speed of the crowd transiting during the
    observation period.

    -   Attribute type: Property. [Number](https://schema.org/Number)
    -   Default unit: Kilometer per hour (Km/h).
    -   Optional

-   `congested` : Flags whether there was a crowd congestion during the
    observation period in the referred walkway. The absence of this attribute
    means no crowd congestion.

    -   Attribute type: Property. [Boolean](https://schema.org/Boolean)
    -   Optional

-   `averageHeadwayTime` : Average headway time. Headway time is the time
    elapsed between two consecutive persons.

    -   Attribute type: Property. [Number](https://schema.org/Number)
    -   Default unit: second (s)
    -   Optional

-   `direction` : Usual direction of travel in the walkway referred by this
    observation with respect to the city center.
    -   Attribute type: Property. [Text](https://schema.org/Text)
    -   Allowed values: (`inbound`, `outbound`).
    -   Optional

## Examples

### Normalized Example

Normalized NGSI response

```json
{
    "id": "urn:ngsi-ld:CrowdFlowObserved:Valladolid_1",
    "type": "CrowdFlowObserved",
    "dateObserved": {
        "value": "2018-08-07T11:10:00/2018-08-07T11:15:00"
    },
    "direction": {
        "value": "inbound"
    },
    "dateObservedFrom": {
        "type": "DateTime",
        "value": "2018-08-07T11:10:00Z"
    },
    "peopleCount": {
        "value": 100
    },
    "averageHeadwayTime": {
        "value": 5
    },
    "dateObservedTo": {
        "type": "DateTime",
        "value": "2018-08-07T11:15:00Z"
    },
    "location": {
        "type": "geo:json",
        "value": {
            "type": "LineString",
            "coordinates": [
                [-4.73735395519672, 41.6538181849672],
                [-4.73414858659993, 41.6600594193478],
                [-4.73447575302641, 41.659585195093]
            ]
        }
    },
    "congested": {
        "value": false
    }
}
```

### key-value pairs Example

Sample uses simplified representation for data consumers `?options=keyValues`

```json
{
    "id": "urn:ngsi-ld:CrowdFlowObserved:Valladolid_1",
    "type": "CrowdFlowObserved",
    "dateObservedFrom": "2018-08-07T11:10:00",
    "dateObservedTo": "2018-08-07T11:15:00",
    "peopleCount": 100,
    "averageHeadwayTime": 5,
    "congested": false,
    "direction": "inbound",
    "location": {
        "type": "LineString",
        "coordinates": [
            [-4.73735395519672, 41.6538181849672],
            [-4.73414858659993, 41.6600594193478],
            [-4.73447575302641, 41.659585195093]
        ]
    }
}
```

### LD Example

Sample uses the NGSI-LD representation

```json
{
    "id": "urn:ngsi-ld:CrowdFlowObserved:Valladolid_1",
    "type": "CrowdFlowObserved",
    "dateObserved": {
        "type": "Property",
        "value": "2018-08-07T11:10:00/2018-08-07T11:15:00"
    },
    "direction": {
        "type": "Property",
        "value": "inbound"
    },
    "dateObservedFrom": {
        "type": "Property",
        "value": {
            "@type": "DateTime",
            "@value": "2018-08-07T11:10:00Z"
        }
    },
    "peopleCount": {
        "type": "Property",
        "value": 100
    },
    "averageHeadwayTime": {
        "type": "Property",
        "value": 5
    },
    "dateObservedTo": {
        "type": "Property",
        "value": {
            "@type": "DateTime",
            "@value": "2018-08-07T11:15:00Z"
        }
    },
    "location": {
        "type": "GeoProperty",
        "value": {
            "type": "LineString",
            "coordinates": [
                [-4.73735395519672, 41.6538181849672],
                [-4.73414858659993, 41.6600594193478],
                [-4.73447575302641, 41.659585195093]
            ]
        }
    },
    "congested": {
        "type": "Property",
        "value": false
    },
    "@context": [
        "https://schema.lab.fiware.org/ld/context",
        "https://uri.etsi.org/ngsi-ld/v1/ngsi-ld-core-context.jsonld"
    ]
}
```

### Open issues
