specs/Alert/doc/spec.md, before:

# Alert data model

**Note: The latest version of this Data Model can be 
found at [https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.Alert](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.Alert)**

## Description

This entity models an alert and could be used to send alerts related to traffic
jam, accidents, weather conditions, high level of pollutants and so on. The
purpose of the model is to support the generation of notifications for a user or
trigger other actions, based on such alerts.

An alert is generated by a specific situation. The main features of an alert is
that it is not predictable and it is not a recurrent data. That means that an
alert could be an accident or a high level of pollutants measure, additionally
it could be the fall down of a patient or a car driving in the opposite
direction.

Some examples of context data are: type of alert (traffic, weather, security,
and pollution, etc.), severity, location and so on.

## Data model

A JSON Schema corresponding to this data model can be found
[here](../schema.json).

-   `id` : Entity's unique identifier.

-   `type` : Entity type. It must be equal to `Alert`.

-   `source` : A sequence of characters giving the source of the entity data.

    -   Attribute type: Property. Text or URL
    -   Optional

-   `dataProvider` : Specifies the URL to information about the provider of this
    information

    -   Attribute type: Property. URL
    -   Optional

-   `category` : Define the category of alert (Traffic jam, accidents, weather
    conditions, high level of pollutants)

    -   Attribute type: Property. [Text](https://schema.org/Text)
    -   Allowed values:
        -   (`traffic`, `naturalDisaster`, `weather`, `environment`, `health`,
            `security`, `agriculture`)
    -   Mandatory

-   `subCategory` : Describe the sub category of alert.

    -   Attribute type: Property. [Text](https://schema.org/Text)
    -   Allowed values:
        -   (`trafficJam`, `carAccident`, `carWrongDirection`, `carStopped`,
            `pothole`, `roadClosed`, `roadWorks`, `hazardOnRoad`,
            `injuredBiker`) (for `traffic` category)
        -   (`flood`, `tsunami`, `coastalEvent`, `earthquake`) (for
            `naturalDisaster` category)
        -   (`rainfall`, `highTemperature`, `lowTemperature`, `heatWave`,
            `coldWave`, `ice`, `snow`, `wind`, `fog`, `tornado`,
            `tropicalCyclone`, `hurricane`, `snow/ice`, `thunderstorms`,
            `fireRisk`, `avalancheRisk`, `floodRisk`) (for `weather` category)
        -   (`airPollution`, `waterPollution`, `pollenConcentration`) (for
            `environment` category)
        -   (`asthmaAttack`, `bumpedPatient`, `fallenPatient`, `heartAttack` )
            (for `health` category)
        -   (`suspiciousAction`, `robbery`, `assault`, `civilDisorder`,
            `buildingFire`, `forestFire`) (for `security` category)
        -   (`noxiousWeed`, `snail`, `insect`, `rodent`, `bacteria`, `microbe`,
            `fungus`,`mite`, `virus`, `nematodes`, `irrigation`,
            `fertilisation`) (for `agriculture` category)
    -   Optional

-   `location` : Location of alert represented by a GeoJSON geometry.

    -   Attribute type: GeoProperty. `geo:json`.
    -   Normative References: [rfc7946](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7946)
    -   Mandatory if `address` is not present

-   `address` : Civic address of `Alert`

    -   Attribute type: Property. [Address](https://schema.org/address)
    -   Mandatory if `location` is not present.

-   `dateIssued` : The date and time the alert was issued by the alert generator
    in ISO8601 UTC format.

    -   Attribute type: Property. [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime).
    -   Normative References: [ISO8601](https://www.iso.org/standard/40874.html)
    -   Mandatory

-   `validFrom` : The start date of validity of the alert in ISO8601 UTC format.

    -   Attribute type: Property. [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime).
    -   Normative References: [ISO8601](https://www.iso.org/standard/40874.html)
    -   Optional

-   `validTo` : The end date of validity of the alert in ISO8601 UTC format.

    -   Attribute type: Property. [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime).
    -   Normative References: [ISO8601](https://www.iso.org/standard/40874.html)
    -   Optional

-   `description` : A description of alert (e.g. Traffic jam in Paseo de la
    Reforma. Emergency services at place).

    -   Attribute type: Property. [Description](https://schema.org/description)
    -   Optional

-   `alertSource` : reference to the source of the alert. For example, it could
    be a user of an application, a device, or a service.

    -   Attribute type: Property. [Text](https://schema.org/Text) or
        [URL](https://schema.org/URL)
    -   Mandatory.

-   `data` : used to carry additional data for the alert.

    -   Attribute type: Property. [StructuredValue](https://schema.org/StructuredValue)
    -   Optional.

-   `severity` : define the level of gravity of a given alert.
    -   Attribute type: Property. [Text](https://schema.org/Text)
    -   Allowed values:
        -   (`informational`, `low`, `medium`, `high`, `critical`)
    -   Optional.

**Note**: JSON Schemas are intended to capture the data type and associated
constraints of the different Attributes, regardless their final representation
format in NGSI(v2, LD).

## Examples

### Normalized Example

Normalized NGSI response

```json
{
    "id": "Alert:1",
    "type": "Alert",
    "category": {
        "value": "traffic"
    },
    "subCategory": {
        "value": "trafficJam"
    },
    "validTo": {
        "value": "2017-01-02T10:25:55.00Z"
    },
    "description": {
        "value": "The road is completely blocked for 3kms"
    },
    "location": {
        "type": "geo:json",
        "value": {
            "type": "Point",
            "coordinates": [-3.712247222222222, 40.423852777777775]
        }
    },
    "dateIssued": {
        "type": "DateTime",
        "value": "2017-01-02T09:25:55.00Z"
    },
    "alertSource": {
        "value": "https://account.lab.fiware.org/users/8"
    },
    "validFrom": {
        "type": "DateTime",
        "value": "2017-01-02T09:25:55.00Z"
    },
    "severity": {
        "value": "high"
    }
}
```

### key-value pairs Example

Sample uses simplified representation for data consumers `?options=keyValues`

```json
{
    "id": "VisualEvent123",
    "type": "Alert",
    "category": "security",
    "subCategory": "robbery",
    "location": {
        "type": "Point",
        "coordinates": [-3.712247222222222, 40.423852777777775]
    },
    "dateIssued": "2017-04-25T09:25:55.00Z",
    "description": "Potential robbery in main building",
    "alertSource": "Camera1234",
    "data": {
        "videoURL": "www.smartsecurity.com/video123.mp4",
        "initialFrame": "80",
        "finalFrame": "120"
    },
    "severity": "informational"
}
```

### LD Example

Sample uses the NGSI-LD representation

```json
{
    "id": "urn:ngsi-ld:Alert:Alert:1",
    "type": "Alert",
    "createdAt": "2019-06-06T12:06:06",
    "modifiedAt": "2019-06-07T12:07:06",
    "category": {
        "type": "Property",
        "value": "traffic"
    },
    "subCategory": {
        "type": "Property",
        "value": "trafficJam"
    },
    "validTo": {
        "type": "Property",
        "value": {
            "@type": "DateTime",
            "@value": "2017-01-02T10:25:55.00Z"
        }
    },
    "description": {
        "type": "Property",
        "value": "The road is completely blocked for 3kms"
    },
    "location": {
        "type": "GeoProperty",
        "value": {
            "type": "Point",
            "coordinates": [-3.712247222222222, 40.423852777777775]
        }
    },
    "dateIssued": {
        "type": "Property",
        "value": {
            "@type": "DateTime",
            "@value": "2017-01-02T09:25:55.00Z"
        }
    },
    "alertSource": {
        "type": "Property",
        "value": "https://account.lab.fiware.org/users/8"
    },
    "validFrom": {
        "type": "Property",
        "value": {
            "@type": "DateTime",
            "@value": "2017-01-02T09:25:55.00Z"
        }
    },
    "severity": {
        "type": "Property",
        "value": "high"
    },
    "@context": [
        "https://schema.lab.fiware.org/ld/context",
        "https://uri.etsi.org/ngsi-ld/v1/ngsi-ld-core-context.jsonld"
    ]
}
```

## Use it with a real service

The model has been defined to support different scenarios inside
[SmartSDK](https://smartsdk.eu) project.

## Open Issues

T.B.D

Commit message:

Updating references to refer to core context.
1.  Prefer core context definitios
    *  https://uri.etsi.org/ngsi-ld/name is used over schema.org
    *  https://uri.etsi.org/ngsi-ld/description is used over schema.org

    In both cases a link to normative reference remains.

2. Schema.org links for Attribute Types have been added.
    *  Text and URL link to schema.org
    *  name and description are of type **Text**
    *  address is of type **address**
    * geo:json is a GeoProperty with appropriate normative reference.

specs/Alert/doc/spec.md, after:

# Alert data model

**Note: The latest version of this Data Model can be
found at [https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.Alert](https://github.com/smart-data-models/dataModel.Alert)**

## Description

This entity models an alert and could be used to send alerts related to traffic
jam, accidents, weather conditions, high level of pollutants and so on. The
purpose of the model is to support the generation of notifications for a user or
trigger other actions, based on such alerts.

An alert is generated by a specific situation. The main features of an alert is
that it is not predictable and it is not a recurrent data. That means that an
alert could be an accident or a high level of pollutants measure, additionally
it could be the fall down of a patient or a car driving in the opposite
direction.

Some examples of context data are: type of alert (traffic, weather, security,
and pollution, etc.), severity, location and so on.

## Data model

A JSON Schema corresponding to this data model can be found
[here](../schema.json).

-   `id` : Entity's unique identifier.

-   `type` : Entity type. It must be equal to `Alert`.

-   `source` : A sequence of characters giving the source of the entity data.

    -   Attribute type: Property. [Text](https://schema.org/Text) or [URL](https://schema.org/URL)
    -   Optional

-   `dataProvider` : Specifies the URL to information about the provider of this
    information

    -   Attribute type: Property. [URL](https://schema.org/URL)
    -   Optional

-   `category` : Define the category of alert (Traffic jam, accidents, weather
    conditions, high level of pollutants)

    -   Attribute type: Property. [Text](https://schema.org/Text)
    -   Allowed values:
        -   (`traffic`, `naturalDisaster`, `weather`, `environment`, `health`,
            `security`, `agriculture`)
    -   Mandatory

-   `subCategory` : Describe the sub category of alert.

    -   Attribute type: Property. [Text](https://schema.org/Text)
    -   Allowed values:
        -   (`trafficJam`, `carAccident`, `carWrongDirection`, `carStopped`,
            `pothole`, `roadClosed`, `roadWorks`, `hazardOnRoad`,
            `injuredBiker`) (for `traffic` category)
        -   (`flood`, `tsunami`, `coastalEvent`, `earthquake`) (for
            `naturalDisaster` category)
        -   (`rainfall`, `highTemperature`, `lowTemperature`, `heatWave`,
            `coldWave`, `ice`, `snow`, `wind`, `fog`, `tornado`,
            `tropicalCyclone`, `hurricane`, `snow/ice`, `thunderstorms`,
            `fireRisk`, `avalancheRisk`, `floodRisk`) (for `weather` category)
        -   (`airPollution`, `waterPollution`, `pollenConcentration`) (for
            `environment` category)
        -   (`asthmaAttack`, `bumpedPatient`, `fallenPatient`, `heartAttack` )
            (for `health` category)
        -   (`suspiciousAction`, `robbery`, `assault`, `civilDisorder`,
            `buildingFire`, `forestFire`) (for `security` category)
        -   (`noxiousWeed`, `snail`, `insect`, `rodent`, `bacteria`, `microbe`,
            `fungus`,`mite`, `virus`, `nematodes`, `irrigation`,
            `fertilisation`) (for `agriculture` category)
    -   Optional

-   `location` : Location of alert represented by a GeoJSON geometry.

    -   Attribute type: GeoProperty. `geo:json`.
    -   Normative References: [rfc7946](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7946)
    -   Mandatory if `address` is not present

-   `address` : Civic address of `Alert`

    -   Attribute type: Property. [Address](https://schema.org/address)
    -   Normative References:
        [https://schema.org/address](https://schema.org/address)
    -   Mandatory if `location` is not present.

-   `dateIssued` : The date and time the alert was issued by the alert generator
    in ISO8601 UTC format.

    -   Attribute type: Property. [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime).
    -   Normative References: [ISO8601](https://www.iso.org/standard/40874.html)
    -   Mandatory

-   `validFrom` : The start date of validity of the alert in ISO8601 UTC format.

    -   Attribute type: Property. [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime).
    -   Normative References: [ISO8601](https://www.iso.org/standard/40874.html)
    -   Optional

-   `validTo` : The end date of validity of the alert in ISO8601 UTC format.

    -   Attribute type: Property. [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime).
    -   Normative References: [ISO8601](https://www.iso.org/standard/40874.html)
    -   Optional

-   `description` : A description of alert (e.g. Traffic jam in Paseo de la
    Reforma. Emergency services at place).

    -   Attribute type: Property. [Text](https://schema.org/Text)
    -   Normative References: `https://uri.etsi.org/ngsi-ld/description` equivalent to [description](https://schema.org/description)
    -   Optional

-   `alertSource` : reference to the source of the alert. For example, it could
    be a user of an application, a device, or a service.

    -   Attribute type: Property. [Text](https://schema.org/Text) or
        [URL](https://schema.org/URL)
    -   Mandatory.

-   `data` : used to carry additional data for the alert.

    -   Attribute type: Property. [StructuredValue](https://schema.org/StructuredValue)
    -   Optional.

-   `severity` : define the level of gravity of a given alert.
    -   Attribute type: Property. [Text](https://schema.org/Text)
    -   Allowed values:
        -   (`informational`, `low`, `medium`, `high`, `critical`)
    -   Optional.

**Note**: JSON Schemas are intended to capture the data type and associated
constraints of the different Attributes, regardless their final representation
format in NGSI(v2, LD).

## Examples

### Normalized Example

Normalized NGSI response

```json
{
    "id": "Alert:1",
    "type": "Alert",
    "category": {
        "value": "traffic"
    },
    "subCategory": {
        "value": "trafficJam"
    },
    "validTo": {
        "value": "2017-01-02T10:25:55.00Z"
    },
    "description": {
        "value": "The road is completely blocked for 3kms"
    },
    "location": {
        "type": "geo:json",
        "value": {
            "type": "Point",
            "coordinates": [-3.712247222222222, 40.423852777777775]
        }
    },
    "dateIssued": {
        "type": "DateTime",
        "value": "2017-01-02T09:25:55.00Z"
    },
    "alertSource": {
        "value": "https://account.lab.fiware.org/users/8"
    },
    "validFrom": {
        "type": "DateTime",
        "value": "2017-01-02T09:25:55.00Z"
    },
    "severity": {
        "value": "high"
    }
}
```

### key-value pairs Example

Sample uses simplified representation for data consumers `?options=keyValues`

```json
{
    "id": "VisualEvent123",
    "type": "Alert",
    "category": "security",
    "subCategory": "robbery",
    "location": {
        "type": "Point",
        "coordinates": [-3.712247222222222, 40.423852777777775]
    },
    "dateIssued": "2017-04-25T09:25:55.00Z",
    "description": "Potential robbery in main building",
    "alertSource": "Camera1234",
    "data": {
        "videoURL": "www.smartsecurity.com/video123.mp4",
        "initialFrame": "80",
        "finalFrame": "120"
    },
    "severity": "informational"
}
```

### LD Example

Sample uses the NGSI-LD representation

```json
{
    "id": "urn:ngsi-ld:Alert:Alert:1",
    "type": "Alert",
    "createdAt": "2019-06-06T12:06:06",
    "modifiedAt": "2019-06-07T12:07:06",
    "category": {
        "type": "Property",
        "value": "traffic"
    },
    "subCategory": {
        "type": "Property",
        "value": "trafficJam"
    },
    "validTo": {
        "type": "Property",
        "value": {
            "@type": "DateTime",
            "@value": "2017-01-02T10:25:55.00Z"
        }
    },
    "description": {
        "type": "Property",
        "value": "The road is completely blocked for 3kms"
    },
    "location": {
        "type": "GeoProperty",
        "value": {
            "type": "Point",
            "coordinates": [-3.712247222222222, 40.423852777777775]
        }
    },
    "dateIssued": {
        "type": "Property",
        "value": {
            "@type": "DateTime",
            "@value": "2017-01-02T09:25:55.00Z"
        }
    },
    "alertSource": {
        "type": "Property",
        "value": "https://account.lab.fiware.org/users/8"
    },
    "validFrom": {
        "type": "Property",
        "value": {
            "@type": "DateTime",
            "@value": "2017-01-02T09:25:55.00Z"
        }
    },
    "severity": {
        "type": "Property",
        "value": "high"
    },
    "@context": [
        "https://schema.lab.fiware.org/ld/context",
        "https://uri.etsi.org/ngsi-ld/v1/ngsi-ld-core-context.jsonld"
    ]
}
```

## Use it with a real service

The model has been defined to support different scenarios inside
[SmartSDK](https://smartsdk.eu) project.

## Open Issues

T.B.D
