specs/UrbanMobility/Trip/doc/spec.md, before:

# gtfs:Trip

## Description

See
[https://developers.google.com/transit/gtfs/reference/#tripstxt](https://developers.google.com/transit/gtfs/reference/#tripstxt)

## Data Model

The data model is defined as shown below:

-   `id`: Entity ID.

    -   It shall be `urn:ngsi-ld:gtfs:Trip:<trip_identifier>` being
        `trip_identifier` a value that can be derived from GTFS `trip_id`.

-   `type`: Entity type.

    -   It shall be equal to `gtfs:Trip`.

-   `dateCreated` : Entity's creation timestamp.

    -   Attribute type: [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime)
    -   Read-Only. Automatically generated.

-   `dateModified`: Last update timestamp of this Entity.

    -   Attribute type: [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime)
    -   Read-Only. Automatically generated.

-   `headSign`: Same as GTFS `trip_headsign`.

    -   Attribute type: Property. [Text](https://schema.org/Text).
    -   Optional

-   `shortName`: Same as GTFS `trip_short_name`.

    -   Attribute type: Property. [Text](https://schema.org/Text).
    -   Optional

-   `direction`: Same as GTFS `direction_id`.

    -   Attribute type: Property. [Number](https://schema.org/Number).
    -   Allowed Values: `0` and `1` as per GTFS `direction_id`.
    -   Optional

-   `block`: Same as GTFS `block_id`.

    -   Attribute type: Property. [Text](https://schema.org/Text)
    -   Optional

-   `hasService`: Same as GTFS `service_id`.

    -   Attribute type: Relationship. It shall point to an Entity of Type
        [gtfs:Service](../../Service/doc/spec.md)
    -   Optional

-   `location`: The geographical shape associated to the trip encoded as GeoJSON
    `LineString` or `MultiLineString`. The coordinates shall be obtained from
    the `shapes.txt` feed file as per the value of `shape_id`. + Attribute type:
    GeoProperty. `geo:json` + Optional

-   `hasRoute`: Same as `route_id`.

    -   Attribute type: Relationship. It shall point to an Entity of Type
        [gtfs:Route](../../Route/doc/spec.md)
    -   Mandatory

-   `wheelChairAccessible`: Same as GTFS `wheelchair_accessible`.

    -   Attribute type: Property. [Text](https://schema.org/Text)
    -   Allowed values: (`0`, `1`, `2`) as per the
        [GTFS](https://developers.google.com/transit/gtfs/reference/#tripstxt)
    -   Optional

-   `bikesAllowed`: Same as GTFS `bikes_allowed`.
    -   Attribute type: Property. [Text](https://schema.org/Text)
    -   Allowed values: (`0`, `1`, `2`) as per the
        [GTFS](https://developers.google.com/transit/gtfs/reference/#tripstxt)
    -   Optional

### Example 1 (Normalized Format)

```json
{
    "id": "urn:ngsi-ld:gtfs:Trip:Spain:Malaga:1",
    "type": "gtfs:Trip",
    "direction": {
        "value": 0
    },
    "headSign": {
        "value": "San Andr\u00e9s"
    },
    "hasRoute": {
        "type": "Relationship",
        "value": "urn:ngsi-ld:gtfs:Route:Spain:Malaga:1"
    },
    "hasService": {
        "type": "Relationship",
        "value": "urn:ngsi-ld:gtfs:Service:Malaga_LAB"
    },
    "location": {
        "type": "geo:json",
        "value": {
            "type": "LineString",
            "coordinates": [
                [-4.421394, 36.73826],
                [-4.421428, 36.73825],
                [-4.421505, 36.738186],
                [-4.421525, 36.738033]
            ]
        }
    }
}
```

### Example 2 (?options=keyValues simplified representation for data consumers)

```json
{
    "id": "urn:ngsi-ld:gtfs:Trip:Spain:Malaga:1",
    "type": "gtfs:Trip",
    "hasService": "urn:ngsi-ld:gtfs:Service:Malaga_LAB",
    "headSign": "San Andrés",
    "direction": "0",
    "hasRoute": "urn:ngsi-ld:gtfs:Route:Spain:Malaga:1",
    "location": {
        "type": "LineString",
        "coordinates": [
            [-4.421394, 36.73826],
            [-4.421428, 36.73825],
            [-4.421505, 36.738186],
            [-4.421525, 36.738033]
        ]
    }
}
```

## Summary of mappings to GTFS

### Properties

| GTFS Field              | NGSI Attribute         | LinkedGTFS                  | Comment                                                 |
| :---------------------- | :--------------------- | :-------------------------- | :------------------------------------------------------ |
| `trip_headsign`         | `headSign`             | `gtfs:headsign`             |                                                         |
| `trip_short_name`       | `shortName`            | `gtfs:shortName`            |                                                         |
| `direction_id`          | `direction`            | `gtfs:direction`            |                                                         |
| `shape_id`              | `location`             | `gtfs:shape`                | Coordinates shall be taken from `shapes.txt` feed file. |
| `block_id`              | `block`                | `gtfs:block`                |                                                         |
| `wheelchair_accessible` | `wheelchairAccessible` | `gtfs:wheelchairAccessible` |                                                         |
| `bikes_allowed`         | `bikesAllowed`         | `gtfs:bikesAllowed`         |                                                         |

### Relationships

| GTFS Field   | NGSI Attribute | LinkedGTFS     | Comment                                            |
| :----------- | :------------- | :------------- | :------------------------------------------------- |
| `route_id`   | `hasRoute`     |                |                                                    |
| `service_id` | `hasService`   | `gtfs:service` | It shall point to an Entity of Type `gtfs:Service` |

### Open issues

Commit message:

added source and dataProvider attribute to the UrbanMobility Folder

specs/UrbanMobility/Trip/doc/spec.md, after:

# gtfs:Trip

## Description

See
[https://developers.google.com/transit/gtfs/reference/#tripstxt](https://developers.google.com/transit/gtfs/reference/#tripstxt)

## Data Model

The data model is defined as shown below:

-   `id`: Entity ID.

    -   It shall be `urn:ngsi-ld:gtfs:Trip:<trip_identifier>` being
        `trip_identifier` a value that can be derived from GTFS `trip_id`.

-   `type`: Entity type.

    -   It shall be equal to `gtfs:Trip`.

- `source` : A sequence of characters giving the source of the entity data.
  - Attribute type: Text or URL
  - Optional

- `dataProvider` : Specifies the URL to information about the provider of this information
  - Attribute type: URL
  - Optional

-   `dateCreated` : Entity's creation timestamp.

    -   Attribute type: [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime)
    -   Read-Only. Automatically generated.

-   `dateModified`: Last update timestamp of this Entity.

    -   Attribute type: [DateTime](https://schema.org/DateTime)
    -   Read-Only. Automatically generated.

-   `headSign`: Same as GTFS `trip_headsign`.

    -   Attribute type: Property. [Text](https://schema.org/Text).
    -   Optional

-   `shortName`: Same as GTFS `trip_short_name`.

    -   Attribute type: Property. [Text](https://schema.org/Text).
    -   Optional

-   `direction`: Same as GTFS `direction_id`.

    -   Attribute type: Property. [Number](https://schema.org/Number).
    -   Allowed Values: `0` and `1` as per GTFS `direction_id`.
    -   Optional

-   `block`: Same as GTFS `block_id`.

    -   Attribute type: Property. [Text](https://schema.org/Text)
    -   Optional

-   `hasService`: Same as GTFS `service_id`.

    -   Attribute type: Relationship. It shall point to an Entity of Type
        [gtfs:Service](../../Service/doc/spec.md)
    -   Optional

-   `location`: The geographical shape associated to the trip encoded as GeoJSON
    `LineString` or `MultiLineString`. The coordinates shall be obtained from
    the `shapes.txt` feed file as per the value of `shape_id`. + Attribute type:
    GeoProperty. `geo:json` + Optional

-   `hasRoute`: Same as `route_id`.

    -   Attribute type: Relationship. It shall point to an Entity of Type
        [gtfs:Route](../../Route/doc/spec.md)
    -   Mandatory

-   `wheelChairAccessible`: Same as GTFS `wheelchair_accessible`.

    -   Attribute type: Property. [Text](https://schema.org/Text)
    -   Allowed values: (`0`, `1`, `2`) as per the
        [GTFS](https://developers.google.com/transit/gtfs/reference/#tripstxt)
    -   Optional

-   `bikesAllowed`: Same as GTFS `bikes_allowed`.
    -   Attribute type: Property. [Text](https://schema.org/Text)
    -   Allowed values: (`0`, `1`, `2`) as per the
        [GTFS](https://developers.google.com/transit/gtfs/reference/#tripstxt)
    -   Optional

### Example 1 (Normalized Format)

```json
{
    "id": "urn:ngsi-ld:gtfs:Trip:Spain:Malaga:1",
    "type": "gtfs:Trip",
    "direction": {
        "value": 0
    },
    "headSign": {
        "value": "San Andr\u00e9s"
    },
    "hasRoute": {
        "type": "Relationship",
        "value": "urn:ngsi-ld:gtfs:Route:Spain:Malaga:1"
    },
    "hasService": {
        "type": "Relationship",
        "value": "urn:ngsi-ld:gtfs:Service:Malaga_LAB"
    },
    "location": {
        "type": "geo:json",
        "value": {
            "type": "LineString",
            "coordinates": [
                [-4.421394, 36.73826],
                [-4.421428, 36.73825],
                [-4.421505, 36.738186],
                [-4.421525, 36.738033]
            ]
        }
    }
}
```

### Example 2 (?options=keyValues simplified representation for data consumers)

```json
{
    "id": "urn:ngsi-ld:gtfs:Trip:Spain:Malaga:1",
    "type": "gtfs:Trip",
    "hasService": "urn:ngsi-ld:gtfs:Service:Malaga_LAB",
    "headSign": "San Andrés",
    "direction": "0",
    "hasRoute": "urn:ngsi-ld:gtfs:Route:Spain:Malaga:1",
    "location": {
        "type": "LineString",
        "coordinates": [
            [-4.421394, 36.73826],
            [-4.421428, 36.73825],
            [-4.421505, 36.738186],
            [-4.421525, 36.738033]
        ]
    }
}
```

## Summary of mappings to GTFS

### Properties

| GTFS Field              | NGSI Attribute         | LinkedGTFS                  | Comment                                                 |
| :---------------------- | :--------------------- | :-------------------------- | :------------------------------------------------------ |
| `trip_headsign`         | `headSign`             | `gtfs:headsign`             |                                                         |
| `trip_short_name`       | `shortName`            | `gtfs:shortName`            |                                                         |
| `direction_id`          | `direction`            | `gtfs:direction`            |                                                         |
| `shape_id`              | `location`             | `gtfs:shape`                | Coordinates shall be taken from `shapes.txt` feed file. |
| `block_id`              | `block`                | `gtfs:block`                |                                                         |
| `wheelchair_accessible` | `wheelchairAccessible` | `gtfs:wheelchairAccessible` |                                                         |
| `bikes_allowed`         | `bikesAllowed`         | `gtfs:bikesAllowed`         |                                                         |

### Relationships

| GTFS Field   | NGSI Attribute | LinkedGTFS     | Comment                                            |
| :----------- | :------------- | :------------- | :------------------------------------------------- |
| `route_id`   | `hasRoute`     |                |                                                    |
| `service_id` | `hasService`   | `gtfs:service` | It shall point to an Entity of Type `gtfs:Service` |

### Open issues
